

 


Renfrew v. Toms
United States Court of Appeals, Ninth Circuit. | August 2, 2004 | 109 Fed.Appx. 143 | 2004 WL 1737925

Document Details

Outline
Synopsis
West Headnotes
Attorneys and Law Firms
Opinion
All Citations

standard Citation:

Renfrew v. Toms, 109 F. App’x 143 (9th Cir. 2004)

All Citations:

109 Fed.Appx. 143, 2004 WL 1737925

Search Details

Search Query:

adv: NAME(”wells fargo”)

Jurisdiction:

California

Delivery Details

Date:

November 18, 2017 at 3:08 AM

Delivered By:

Vincent Sheu

Client ID:

SHEU VINCENT




109 Fed.Appx. 143
This case was not selected for publication in the Federal Reporter.
Not for Publication in West’s Federal Reporter See Fed. Rule of Appellate Procedure 32.1 generally governing citation of judicial decisions issued on or after Jan. 1, 2007. See also Ninth Circuit Rule 36-3. (Find CTA9 Rule 36-3)
United States Court of Appeals,
Ninth Circuit.
Charles B. RENFREW, Hon. (Ret.) In his capacity as Trustee of the Toms Sierra Company, Inc., Employee Stock Ownership Plan and Trust; Don Sweet; Claudette Horvath; David Watson, Plaintiffs—Appellees,
Wells Fargo Bank, as Trustee of the Toms Sierra Company Employee Stock Ownership Trust, Plaintiff-counter-defendant—Appellee,
and
Elaine CHAO, Secretary of Labor, Plaintiff,
v.
Roy TOMS (deceased); Nicholas Toms; Kimberly Oms; Seejay Toms; Nicola Macklin; Ken Macklin; William Bean (deceased); Brandon Bean; Christopher Bean; Doris Toms, Defendants-counter-claimants—Appellants,
v.
Sierra Energy, LLC; John A. Greenbank; Applegate, LLC, Defendants-cross-defendants—Appellees,
v.
Toms Sierra Company, Inc.; Defendant-counter-claimant,
James Enge; James Bobst, Counter-defendants,
Roy Toms, et al., Third–Party–Plaintiff,
Ludwig Goldberg & Krenzel LLC; Valuation Analysts, Inc., Third-party-defendants,
and
Claudette Horvath; Gary Weisz, Jim Dunbar, Third–party–defendants–Appellee.
No. 02–17386.
|
Argued May 11, 2004.
|
Decided Aug. 2, 2004.
Synopsis
Background: Class settlement was proposed which provided for bar preventing non-party family from asserting direct claims, as participants in employee stock ownership plan (ESOP), against corporation and ESOP administrative committee and claims for indemnity or contribution against those same parties. The United States District Court for the Eastern District of California, Lawrence K. Karlton, J., approved settlement. Family appealed.
 
Holdings: The Court of Appeals held that:
 
[1] family had standing to appeal;
 
[2] appeal was not rendered moot;
 
[3] district court was not required to hold evidentiary hearing before approving class settlement;
 
[4] finding that partial class settlements were fair, adequate, and reasonable was not abuse of discretion; and
 
[5] settlement bar was appropriate.
 
Affirmed.
 


West Headnotes (5)


[1]

Federal CourtsAsserting claims of others


170BFederal Courts
170BXVIICourts of Appeals
170BXVII(B)Appellate Jurisdiction and Procedure in General
170Bk3253Persons Entitled to Seek Review or Assert Arguments;  Parties;  Standing
170Bk3256Asserting claims of others
(Formerly 170Bk544)


Non-party family had standing to appeal from class settlement that barred it from asserting both direct claims, as participants in employee stock ownership plan (ESOP), against corporation and ESOP administrative committee and claims for indemnity or contribution against those same parties.
Cases that cite this headnote



[2]

Federal CourtsParticular cases


170BFederal Courts
170BXVIICourts of Appeals
170BXVII(I)Dismissal, Withdrawal, or Abandonment
170Bk3513Want of Actual Controversy;  Mootness and Ripeness
170Bk3515Particular cases
(Formerly 170Bk724)


Appeal from class settlement was not rendered moot when multiple settlements on appeal did not affect appellants’ objections to settlement bar that prevented them from asserting both direct claims, as participants in employee stock ownership plan (ESOP), against corporation and ESOP administrative committee and claims for indemnity or contribution against those same parties.
Cases that cite this headnote



[3]

Compromise and SettlementHearing


89Compromise and Settlement
89IIJudicial Approval
89k66Proceedings
89k69Hearing


District court was not required to hold an evidentiary hearing before approving class settlement; instead, all that was required was that each party be given the opportunity to air its objections at a reasonableness or fairness hearing.
Cases that cite this headnote



[4]

Compromise and SettlementParticular applications


89Compromise and Settlement
89IIJudicial Approval
89k56Factors, Standards and Considerations;  Discretion Generally
89k61Particular applications


Finding that partial class settlements were fair, adequate, and reasonable was not abuse of discretion where monies recovered in settlements were substantial and there were good reasons to disallow extensive discovery and depositions.
Cases that cite this headnote



[5]

ContributionDefenses
IndemnitySettlement with third party as bar to action


96Contribution
96k8Defenses
208Indemnity
208VActions
208k95Settlement with third party as bar to action


Settlement bar that was entered as part of settlement agreements in class action and prevented non-party family from asserting direct claims, as participants in employee stock ownership plan (ESOP), against corporation and ESOP administrative committee and claims for indemnity or contribution against those same parties was appropriate, even assuming that contribution or indemnity claims were maintainable under ERISA, given that settling defendants settled in good faith and proportionate share approach was used to determine liability of non-settling defendants, and that family participated in class recovery. Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, § 2 et seq., 29 U.S.C.A. § 1001 et seq.
1 Cases that cite this headnote



Attorneys and Law Firms
*145 D. Ward Kallstrom, Esq., Sonnenschein Nath & Rosenthal, Cheryl D. Orr, Carton Disante & Freudenberg LLP, San Francisco, CA, Allen H. Feldman, Associate Solicitor, Nathaniel I. Spiller, Esq., Edward D. Sieger, Attorney, U.S. Department of Labor, Washington, DC, for Plaintiffs–Appellees.
James G. Driscoll, Esq., Bullivant Houser Bailey, PC, Portland, OR, for Plaintiffs–Appellees and Defendant–cross–defendant–Appellee.
M. Taylor Florence, Esq., Bullivant, Houser, Bailey, Pendergrass and Hoffman, Gold River, CA, for Defendant–cross–defendant–Appellee.
Michael R. Drayton, Stuart Lansing Smits, Stuart L. Smits & Associates, Jay–Allen Eisen, C. Athena Roussos, Esq., Jay–Allen Eisen Law Corp., Sacramento, CA, for Defendant–counter–claimant–Appellants.
Whitney F. Washburn, Esq., Law Office of Whitney F. Washburn, Gold River, CA, for Defendant–counter–claimant.
Charles L. Post, Esq., Weintraub, Genshlea, Chediak & Sproul, Anthony DeCristoforo, Wilke, Fleury, Hoffelt, Gould & Birney, Sacramento, CA, for Counter–defendants.
Steven A. Lewis, Esq., Lewis & Bacon, Sacramento, CA, for Third–party–defendant.
Appeal from the United States District Court for the Eastern District of California, Lawrence K. Karlton, Judge, Presiding.
Before O’SCANNLAIN, SILER,* and HAWKINS, Circuit Judges.


MEMORANDUM**
**1 [1] [2] As an initial matter, “a non-party who is enjoined or otherwise directly aggrieved by a judgment has standing to appeal the judgment.” Class Plaintiffs v. City of Seattle, 955 F.2d 1268, 1277 (9th Cir.1992). Because the TSC/Class Settlement bars (i.e., “enjoins”) the Toms Family from asserting both (1) its “direct” claims as ESOP participants against Sierra and the ESOP Administrative Committee, and (2) its indemnity/contribution claims against these same parties, the Toms Family has standing to appeal. Also, this appeal has not been rendered moot, because the multiple settlements on appeal have not affected the Toms Family’s objections to the settlement bar.
 
The Toms Family lodges three specific objections to the settlement approval at issue in this case: (1) the district court should have permitted them to depose Paul Ainslie, the forensic accountant on whom Trustee Renfrew relied in gauging the value of the TSC stock, (2) a Daubert hearing should have been held, and (3) an evidentiary hearing was appropriate.
 
*146 [3] The district court was not required to hold an evidentiary hearing before approving the settlement. Instead, all that was required was that “each party [be] given the opportunity to ‘air its objections’ at a reasonableness or fairness hearing.” United States v. Oregon, 913 F.2d 576, 582 (9th Cir.1990). Such a hearing was held here.
 
[4] The district court did not abuse its discretion in finding the Partial Class Settlements fair, adequate, and reasonable. The monies recovered in the settlements were substantial and there were good reasons to disallow extensive discovery and depositions.
 
[5] Nor was the settlement bar entered as part of the Settlement Agreements inappropriate. Even assuming that contribution/indemnity claims are maintainable under ERISA, this court has recognized the legitimacy—and, even, the necessity—of settlement bars to prohibit contribution/indemnity claims under certain circumstances. Bar orders are appropriate so long as the court finds that (1) the settling defendants are settling in good faith, and (2) a “proportionate share” approach is used at trial to determine the liability of non-settling defendants. See, e.g., Resolution Trust Corp. v. Rice (In re Consolidated Pinnacle West Securities Litig./Resolution Trust Corporation–Merabank Litig.), 51 F.3d 194, 197 (9th Cir.1995) (upholding a bar in shareholders class action). Both conditions were met here.
 
That the settlement bar also barred the Toms Family’s so-called “direct” claims as well does not change the outcome. This is true particularly because the Toms Family participated in the class recovery.
 
The outstanding motion for leave of court to supplement the record is hereby granted, but for the reasons explained above the case is not moot.
 
AFFIRMED.
 
All Citations
109 Fed.Appx. 143, 2004 WL 1737925
Footnotes

*

The Honorable Eugene E. Siler, Jr., Senior United States Circuit Judge for the Sixth Circuit, sitting by designation.

**

This disposition is not appropriate for publication and may not be cited to or by the courts of this circuit except as provided by Ninth Circuit Rule 36–3.


End of Document

© 2017 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.


