

 


Mina v. Chester County Court of Common Pleas
United States Court of Appeals, Third Circuit. | July 13, 2016 | 667 Fed.Appx. 367 | 2016 WL 3743180

Document Details

Outline
Attorneys and Law Firms
Opinion
All Citations

standard Citation:

Mina v. Chester Cty. Court of Common Pleas, 667 F. App’x 367 (3d Cir. 2016)

All Citations:

667 Fed.Appx. 367 (Mem)

Search Details

Search Query:

adv: NAME(”wells fargo”)

Jurisdiction:

Pennsylvania

Delivery Details

Date:

November 18, 2017 at 3:08 AM

Delivered By:

Vincent Sheu

Client ID:

SHEU VINCENT




667 Fed.Appx. 367 (Mem)
This case was not selected for publication in West’s Federal Reporter.
See Fed. Rule of Appellate Procedure 32.1 generally governing citation of judicial decisions issued on or after Jan. 1, 2007. See also U.S.Ct. of Appeals 3rd Cir. App. I, IOP 5.1, 5.3, and 5.7.
United States Court of Appeals,
Third Circuit.
Anthony Stocker MINA; TLC Dreams Foundation; Truth Today for a Better Tomorrow Political Committee;
v.
CHESTER COUNTY COURT OF COMMON PLEAS; President Judge James P. Macelree, II; Judge Anthony Sarcione; Judge Thomas G. Gavin; Judge Jacqueline Carroll Cody; Judge Katherine B.L. Platt; Judge Mark L. Tunnell; Judge John L. Braxton; Chester County Domestic Relations Section (CCDRS) CCDRS Director Joseph M. Waters; William R. Whitehead, CCDRS Deputy Director; Robin Kelly, CCDRS Director; Cathy Smith, CCDRS Administrative Secretary; Shauna Johnson, CCDRS Enforcement Officer; Mary Jones, CCDRS Staff Attorney; Robert T. Lombardi, CCDRS Hearing Officer; Rose Anderson, CCDRS Hearing Officer; Janet Snyder, Family Court Secretary; Robert E. Kyle, Director of Juvenile Probation; William Handy, Chester County Court Reporter Chief; Thomas P. Hogan, Chester County District Attorney (CCDA); CCDA Peter Hobart; CCDA Joseph Carroll, Former Da; CCDA Cristin Kubacke; West Chester Police, Wcpd; WCPD Scott Bohn; WCPD Detective Stan Billie; WCPD SGT. Louis Deschullo; WCPD Officer Greg Cugino; Danielle Cugino, Chester County Probation Collection Officer; Keith Laurer, Chester County Probation Officer; John R. Merrick, Chester County Public Defender; Nathan Shenker, Chester County Public Defender; Prothonotary Bryan Walters; Daily Local News Courthouse; Attorney General Pennsylvania; Attorney Leonard J. Rivera; Attorney Dawson R. Muth; Attorney Eric Trajtenberg; Daily Local Newspaper; Optima Webe Design Enet, Ron Shur, Nick Potopov; Federal Court Judge Luis Felipe Restrepo; Charles Maines, Chester County Probation Officer; Wells Fargo Bank Anthony Stocker Mina; *Heaven Scent Landscaping; TLC Dreams Foundation, Appellants (*Pursuant To Fed. R. App. P. 12(a))
No. 14–4620
|
Submitted Pursuant to Third Circuit LAR 34.1(a) June 22, 2016
|
(Opinion filed: July 13, 2016)
On Appeal from the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, (D.C. Civil Action No. 2:13–cv–07622), District Judge: Honorable Mitchell S. Goldberg
Attorneys and Law Firms
Anthony S. Mina, Pro Se
Geri R. St. Joseph, Esq., Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, Administrative Office of Pennsylvania Courts, Philadelphia, PA, for Defendants–Appellees Chester County Court of Common Pleas, President Judge James P. Macelree, II, Judge Anthony A. Sarcione, Judge Thomas G. Gavin, Judge Jacqueline Cody, Judge Katherine B.L. Platt, Judge Mark L. Tunnell, Judge John L. Braxton, Chester County Domestic Relations CCDRS
Joseph Goldberg, Esq., Michael B. Pullano, Esq., Weber Gallagher Simpson Stapleton Fires & Newby, Philadelphia, PA, for Defendants–Appellees CCDA Peter Hobart, CCDA Cristin Kubacke, John R. Merrick, Nathan Shenker, Mary Jones, Thomas P. Hogan
Michael B. Pullano, Esq., Weber Gallagher Simpson Stapleton Fires & Newby, Philadelphia, PA, for Defendant–Appellee Joseph A. Carroll
Colleen M. Frens, Esq., Rachel E. Lusk, Esq., Lamb McErlane, West Chester, PA, for Defendants–Appellees Danielle Cugino, Keith Laurer, Bryan Walters, Charles Maines
Jeffrey P. Lewis, Esq., Eckert Seamans Cherin & Mellott, Philadelphia, PA, for Defendants–Appellees Attorney General Leonard J. Rivera, Esq., Attorney Eric Trajtenberg
Dawson R. Muth, Esq., Goldberg Meanix McCallin & Muth, West Chester, PA, for Defendant–Appellee Atttorney Dawson R. Muth
Eric D. Gill, Esq., Office of United States Attorney, Philadelphia, PA, for Defendant–Appellee *369 Federal Court Judge L. Felipe Restrepo
Steven B. Kantrowitz, Esq., Kantrowitz & Phillippi, Philadelphia, PA, for Defendant–Appellee Wells Fargo Bank
Before: FUENTES, VANASKIE and SCIRICA, Circuit Judges


OPINION*

PER CURIAM
Anthony Stocker Mina appeals the District Court’s order dismissing his pro se civil rights lawsuit and the District Court’s subsequent order dismissing his motions for relief from judgment. We will affirm.
 
In 2014, Mina, a frequent pro se litigant, filed a second amended complaint accusing some 44 defendants of various constitutional violations arising out of criminal and civil matters that Mina has been involved with before the Chester County Court of Common Pleas during the last twenty years. The defendants included judges, prosecutors, police officers, probation officers, employees of the Chester County Domestic Relations Section, public defenders, private attorneys, the Chester County prothonotary, two newspapers, and a bank. The District Court dismissed the suit on various grounds, including Eleventh Amendment immunity, judicial immunity, the Rooker–Feldman1 doctrine, prosecutorial immunity, statute of limitations bars, and Mina’s failure to allege sufficient facts to make claims under the applicable laws he cites. Mina subsequently filed motions seeking relief from judgment, which the District Court denied. Mina appeals.2
 
We have jurisdiction pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1291. We exercise plenary review over the District Court’s dismissal order. See Allah v. Seiverling, 229 F.3d 220, 223 (3d Cir. 2000). We generally review the District Court’s order denying motions for relief from judgment for abuse of discretion, but to the extent that the order denied a motion brought pursuant to Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 60(b)(4), our review is plenary. Budget Blinds, Inc. v. White, 536 F.3d 244, 251 & n.5 (3d Cir. 2008).
 
The District Court did not err in dismissing Mina’s second amended complaint or denying his motions for relief from judgment. The District Court concisely identified the grounds for dismissing Mina’s amended complaint and denying his motions for relief from judgment, and we will affirm for substantially the same reasons. Mina’s filings in this Court, which contain both additional unsupported allegations and the restatement of his earlier claims, do not provide any basis to challenge the District Court’s rulings.3 We *370 have also reviewed Mina’s letters filed on January 18, 2016, February 8, 2016, March 7, 2016, and June 29, 2016, and they do not alter our analysis.
 
Accordingly, we will affirm the District’s Court’s orders as they relate to Mina. As we noted above, the appeal is dismissed as to Heaven Scent Landscaping and the TLC Dreams Foundation.
 
All Citations
667 Fed.Appx. 367 (Mem)
Footnotes

*

This disposition is not an opinion of the full Court and pursuant to I.O.P. 5.7 does not constitute binding precedent.

1

See Dist. of Columbia Court of Appeals v. Feldman, 460 U.S. 462, 103 S.Ct. 1303, 75 L.Ed.2d 206 (1983); Rooker v. Fidelty Trust Co., 263 U.S. 413 (1923).

2

Mina seeks to appeal on behalf of himself, Heaven Scent Landscaping, and the TLC Dreams Foundation. Heaven Scent Landscaping, which was not listed as a plaintiff in the second amended complaint’s caption or introduction, is a non-party. Absent an exception not applicable here, a non-party does not have standing to appeal. See Hoots v. Pennsylvania, 495 F.2d 1095, 1096 n.3 (3d Cir. 1974). TLC Dreams Foundation is listed in the caption of the complaint. To the extent it is a party, Mina has not demonstrated that it is a party he can represent. Cf. Simbraw v. United States, 367 F.2d 373 (3d Cir. 1966). Therefore, this appeal is dismissed as to Heaven Scent Landscaping and the TLC Dreams Foundation.

3

Among other arguments, Mina challenges the District Court’s dismissal on the grounds that he should have been given leave to amend his complaint again. The District Court did not err in declining to give Mina another chance to amend. He was given two opportunities to amend, and, in any event, an additional amendment would have been futile under the circumstances. See Grayson v. Mayview State Hosp., 293 F.3d 103, 108 (3d Cir. 2002).


End of Document

© 2017 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.


