




N.B. Industries, Inc. v. Wells Fargo & Co.
United States Court of Appeals, Ninth Circuit. | January 6, 2012 | 465 Fed.Appx. 640 | 2012 WL 32125

Document Details

Outline
Synopsis
West Headnotes
Attorneys and Law Firms
Opinion
All Citations
Appended Content
Negative Treatment

KeyCite:

KeyCite Yellow Flag - Negative Treatment
 Distinguished by St. Louis Heart Center, Inc. v. Caremark, L.L.C., E.D.Mo., April 19, 2013

standard Citation:

N.B. Indus., Inc. v. Wells Fargo & Co., 465 F. App’x 640 (9th Cir. 2012)

All Citations:

465 Fed.Appx. 640, 2012 WL 32125

Search Details

Search Query:

adv: NAME(”wells fargo”)

Jurisdiction:

California

Delivery Details

Date:

November 18, 2017 at 3:06 AM

Delivered By:

Vincent Sheu

Client ID:

SHEU VINCENT





KeyCite Yellow Flag - Negative Treatment
 	Distinguished by St. Louis Heart Center, Inc. v. Caremark, L.L.C., E.D.Mo., April 19, 2013
465 Fed.Appx. 640
This case was not selected for publication in the Federal Reporter.
Not for Publication in West’s Federal Reporter See Fed. Rule of Appellate Procedure 32.1 generally governing citation of judicial decisions issued on or after Jan. 1, 2007. See also Ninth Circuit Rule 36-3. (Find CTA9 Rule 36-3)
United States Court of Appeals,
Ninth Circuit.
N.B. INDUSTRIES, INC., a California corporation, individually and on behalf of all others similarly situated, Plaintiff—Appellant,
v.
WELLS FARGO & COMPANY, a Delaware corporation; Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., a national banking association; United States Pan Asian American Chamber of Commerce, a District of Columbia nonprofit corporation; United States Pan Asian American Chamber of Commerce Education Foundation, a District of Columbia nonprofit corporation, Defendants—Appellees.
No. 10–17934.
|
Argued and Submitted Dec. 5, 2011.
|
Filed Jan. 6, 2012.
Synopsis
Background: Fax recipient brought class action against senders that allegedly faxed unsolicited advertisements in violation of Junk Fax Prevention Act (JFPA). Senders moved to dismiss for failure to state claim. The United States District Court for the Northern District of California, Laurel D. Beeler, United States Magistrate Judge, 2010 WL 4939970, granted motions. Recipient appealed.
 
Holdings: The Court of Appeals held that:
 
[1] business leadership award described in faxes was not a commercially available good or service, and thus faxes’ description of award and application to apply for it were not “unsolicited advertisements” within meaning of JFPA, and
 
[2] faxes were not transformed into “unsolicited advertisements” by presence of incidental advertisements for senders’ goods and services.
 
Affirmed.
 


West Headnotes (2)


[1]

TelecommunicationsAdvertising, canvassing and soliciting;  telemarketing


372Telecommunications
372IIITelephones
372III(F)Telephone Service
372k888Advertising, canvassing and soliciting;  telemarketing


Business leadership award described in faxes was not a commercially available good or service, and thus faxes’ description of award and application to apply for it were not “unsolicited advertisements” within meaning of Junk Fax Prevention Act (JFPA); award was not available to be bought or sold, nor was it a pretext for advertising goods or services that were available to be bought or sold. Junk Fax Prevention Act of 2005, 47 U.S.C.A. § 227(a)(5).
9 Cases that cite this headnote



[2]

TelecommunicationsAdvertising, canvassing and soliciting;  telemarketing


372Telecommunications
372IIITelephones
372III(F)Telephone Service
372k888Advertising, canvassing and soliciting;  telemarketing


Faxes describing business leadership award, which was not itself available to be bought or sold, were not transformed into “unsolicited advertisements” within meaning of Junk Fax Prevention Act (JFPA) by presence of incidental advertisements for senders’ goods and services; incidental advertisements were not paid advertisements on behalf of third party, but related to business conference organized by senders, and incidental advertisements occupied only small portion of faxes. Junk Fax Prevention Act of 2005, 47 U.S.C.A. § 227(a)(5).
6 Cases that cite this headnote



Attorneys and Law Firms
*641 Scott Z. Zimmermann, Esquire, Law Offices of Scott Z. Zimmermann, Los Angeles, CA, for Plaintiff–Appellant.
Randall Thomas Kim, Brune & Ricard LLP, San Francisco, CA, Thomas Michael Freeman, Marion’s Inn LLP, Oakland, CA, for Defendants–Appellees.
Appeal from the United States District Court for the Northern District of California, Laurel D. Beeler, Magistrate Judge, Presiding. D.C. No. 4:10–cv–03203–LB.
Before: SCHROEDER, O’SCANNLAIN, and BERZON, Circuit Judges.


MEMORANDUM*
**1 Plaintiff–Appellant N.B. Industries, Inc. (“N.B.”) alleges that Defendant–Appellees *642 Wells Fargo & Company, Wells Fargo N.A. (collectively, “Wells Fargo”), the United States Pan Asian American Chamber of Commerce, and the United States Pan Asian American Chamber of Commerce Education Foundation (collectively, “USPAACC”) faxed N.B. unsolicited advertisements in violation of the Junk Fax Prevention Act (“JFPA”), 47 U.S.C. § 227. The district court dismissed with prejudice N.B.’s complaint for failure to state a claim. We affirm the dismissal.
 
1. We review de novo a dismissal for failure to state a claim under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 12(b)(6). Synagogue v. United States, 482 F.3d 1058, 1060 (9th Cir.2007). Because this is an appeal from an order granting Defendants’ motion to dismiss, we rely upon all the factual allegations pleaded in the Plaintiff’s complaint and assume them to be true. See Knievel v. ESPN, 393 F.3d 1068, 1072 (9th Cir.2005).
 
[1] 2. The faxes sent by Wells Fargo and USPAACC comprised almost entirely information about an Asian Business Leadership Award, an application for the award, and encouragement to apply. In addition, the faxes contained five mentions of the 2010 USPAACC CelebrAsian Business Opportunity Conference; were marked with six USPAACC or Wells Fargo logos; provided general (non-award specific) USPAACC or Wells Fargo contact information twice; and once invited recipients to “[v]isit” USPAACC and Wells Fargo’s websites, sites that contained information advertising their services.
 
JFPA defines an unsolicited advertisement as “any material advertising the commercial availability or quality of any property, goods, or services which is transmitted to any person without that person’s prior express invitation or permission, in writing or otherwise.” 47 U.S.C. § 227(a)(5). To be commercially available within the meaning of JFPA, a good or service must be available to be bought or sold (or must be a pretext for advertising a product that is so available). The American Heritage Dictionary 175 (3d ed.1994) (defining commerce as the “buying and selling of goods”).
 
There is no indication—and N.B. does not allege—that the Asian Business Leadership Award is available for sale. Nor is there any indication or allegation that the award itself is a pretext for advertising commercially available goods or services. The Asian Business Leadership Award is thus not commercially available.
 
N.B. argues that the text relating to the award nevertheless violates JFPA because it “proposes a commercial transaction”: “award consideration and the opportunity to receive award benefits in exchange for applicants’ immediate transfer of media and privacy rights.” N.B. is referring to the disclosure agreement included with the faxed application, which essentially provides that Wells Fargo and USPAACC may publicize the award winners. Requiring that applicants sign such an agreement as a condition for applying for an award does not make the award for sale. Indeed, publicity is presumably one of the benefits of the award to those who win. We hold that the award itself is not commercially available and, therefore, the description of the award, the application to apply for it, and the text encouraging recipients to apply are not unsolicited advertisements within the meaning of JFPA.
 
**2 [2] 3. The faxes did, however, contain several incidental advertisements. To determine whether such incidental advertising transforms an otherwise legitimate fax into an illegal unsolicited advertisement, we must turn to the interpretation of JFPA promulgated by the Federal Communications Commission, the agency to which the Act explicitly delegates interpretive authority. 47 U.S.C. § 227(b)(2); see also  *643 Chevron, U.S.A. v. NRDC, Inc., 467 U.S. 837, 845, 104 S.Ct. 2778, 81 L.Ed.2d 694 (1984).
 
The faxes repeatedly mention that the Asian Business Leadership Award will be presented at the 25th Anniversary CelebrAsian Business Opportunity Conference. Conference attendees were charged a fee for their participation in exchange for the “chance to connect with serious buyers of Fortune Corporations and the Federal Government, to showcase [their] products and services, and to take part in this trillion dollar market at this one-of-a-kind conference.” Participation in the conference was thus a commercially available service.
 
In addition, the faxes at issue contained several Wells Fargo and USPAACC logos and slogans, as well as general (non-award related) contact information for both organizations. The FCC Order interpreting JFPA indicates that company logos and business slogans are advertising, although, in many cases, so de minimis in comparison to the fax as a whole as not to render the entire fax an advertisement. See 71 Fed.Reg. at 25,973. The logos, slogans, and contact information included on the faxes at issue here could reasonably be construed as advertising the commercial availability of Wells Fargo and USPAACC’s goods and services. In particular, a recipient of the faxes could reasonably infer from the references to Wells Fargo’s Asian Business Services program that Wells Fargo sells services to Asian businesses.
 
Finally, the faxes direct recipients to “[v]isit uspaacc.com or wellsfargo.com/biz/asian.” At the time, the website at uspaacc.com was almost entirely an advertisement for the CelebrAsian Conference. The Wells Fargo website, while briefly describing the award, was similarly almost entirely an advertisement for and description of Wells Fargo’s Asian business services.
 
Applying the FCC standards, the CelebrAsian Business Conference, the inclusion of the logos, slogans, and non-award related contact information, and the direction to visit Wells Fargo and USPAACC’s websites all constitute unsolicited advertisements. The FCC’s guidance mentions two factors relevant to when incidental advertising transforms a legitimate fax into an unsolicited advertisement: (1) “whether the advertising is on behalf of the sender ..., such as an announcement in a membership organization’s monthly newsletter about an upcoming conference” or whether it “is sold to and transmitted on behalf of [other] entities”; and (2) “the amount of space devoted to advertising versus the amount of space used for information.” 71 Fed.Reg. 25,967–01. The first factor clearly cuts in favor of Wells Fargo and USPAACC.
 
**3 As to the second factor, there is little caselaw on what percentage of incidental advertising is too much. However, it is clear that the percentage in this case is very low. C.f. Holmes v. Back Doctors, Ltd., 695 F.Supp.2d 843, 851 (S.D.Ill.2010) (holding that a fax, one-seventh of which comprised advertising, did not violate JFPA). We hold that the advertisements constituted such a small portion of the faxes as to be incidental to the award application. Such de minimis advertising is insufficient to transform faxes that were largely permissible into prohibited communications.
 
In sum, the faxes sent by Wells Fargo and USPAACC to N.B. were not, overall, advertisements within the meaning of JFPA. Therefore, faxing them without N.B.’s permission did not violate the Act.
 
AFFIRMED.
 
All Citations
465 Fed.Appx. 640, 2012 WL 32125
Footnotes

*

This disposition is not appropriate for publication and is not precedent except as provided by 9th Cir. R. 36–3.


End of Document

© 2017 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.



Negative Treatment
Negative Citing References (1)
The KeyCited document has been negatively referenced by the following events or decisions in other litigation or proceedings:
Treatment
Title
Date
Type
Depth
Headnote(s)
Distinguished by
 1.  St. Louis Heart Center, Inc. v. Caremark, L.L.C. 
2013 WL 9988795 , E.D.Mo.
St. Louis Heart Center, Inc. (Plaintiff), alleges that it received an unwanted, unsolicited facsimile (fax) from Caremark, L.L .C. (Defendant), that ‘’advertis[ed] the commercial...
Apr. 19, 2013
Case

1




Fed.Appx.


