

 


Mayer v. Chase National Bank of City of New York
United States Court of Appeals Second Circuit. | March 12, 1957 | 242 F.2d 148

Document Details

Outline
West Headnotes
Attorneys and Law Firms
Opinion
All Citations

standard Citation:

Mayer v. Chase Nat’l Bank of City of New York, 242 F.2d 148 (2d Cir. 1957)

All Citations:

242 F.2d 148

Search Details

Search Query:

adv: NAME(”wells fargo”)

Jurisdiction:

New York

Delivery Details

Date:

November 18, 2017 at 3:08 AM

Delivered By:

Vincent Sheu

Client ID:

SHEU VINCENT




242 F.2d 148
United States Court of Appeals Second Circuit.
Rosa MAYER as Administratrix of Benjamin Mayer, Plaintiff,
v.
CHASE NATIONAL BANK OF the CITY OF NEW YORK, as Trustee, etc., Western Pacific Railroad Corporation, Wells Fargo Bank & Union Trust Company and Helene N. Preis, as Trustees under the Will of Sanford Sachs, John M. Wilmans as Executor of Lillian Wilmans, Leo V. Korbel, and Bank of America National Trust & Savings Association, etc., Defendants, Euphemia V. R. Wyatt, as Administratrix c t a of Christopher B. Wyatt, et al., Intervening Defendants, and People of the State of New York, Intervenor Defendant.
Docket 24465.
|
Submitted Feb. 4 and 11, 1957.
|
Decided March 12, 1957.
Action for judgment declaring that the circumstances required trustee to depart from terms of trust agreement by paying to known bondholders of their bonds the pro rata shares of unknown holders wherein the State of New York intervened and cross-complained under the abandoned property law. The United States Court of Appeals, Per Curiam, held that its prior judgment of reversal and remand in 233 F.2d 468 was not intended to preclude the claimants from proceeding upon some new theory based upon new facts nor to prejudge any application for leave to serve an amended complaint.
 
Judgment of dismissal vacated and new remand entered in order that all issues raised by the pleadings other than the claim the court already rejected, be determined.
 


West Headnotes (2)


[1]

Appeal and ErrorProceedings frivolous or for delay


30Appeal and Error
30XIIIDismissal, Withdrawal, or Abandonment
30k779Grounds for Dismissal
30k786Proceedings frivolous or for delay


Where judgment of dismissal of complaint by District Court on remand from the Court of Appeals was based on a misapprehension of the purpose and effect of the remand and the Court of Appeals did not intend to preclude the claimant from proceeding upon some new theory based on new facts, appeal from the judgment of dismissal in order to secure a correction of the judgment was not dismissable as frivolous.
1 Cases that cite this headnote



[2]

Federal CourtsEffect of Decision in Lower Court


170BFederal Courts
170BXVIICourts of Appeals
170BXVII(L)Determination and Disposition of Cause
170Bk3793Effect of Decision in Lower Court
170Bk3794In general
(Formerly 170Bk949, 170Bk949.1, 106k406.9(12))


In action for judgment that circumstances required trustee to depart from terms of trust agreement by paying to known bondholders of their bonds the pro rata shares of unknown holders, prior judgment by the Court of Appeals of reversal and remand was not intended to preclude claimants from proceeding upon some new theory based upon new facts other than those considered in the claim rejected, nor did it preclude an application for leave to serve an amended complaint.
1 Cases that cite this headnote



Attorneys and Law Firms
*149 Robert M. Cowen, New York City, for plaintiff.
Eugene H. Nickerson, New York City, Special Guardian.
Bernard Cowen, New York City, for Intervening defendants.
Louis J. Lefkowitz, Atty. Gen., of the State of New York, New York City, for the People of the State of New York.
Milbank, Tweed, Hope & Hadley, New York City, for Chase Manhattan Bank, etc.
Abraham J. Gellinoff, New York City, Special Guardian.
Before CLARK, Chief Judge, MEDINA, Circuit Judge, and GALSTON, district judge.
Opinion
PER CURIAM.

On a prior appeal in this case we set aside a summary judgment entered in favor of the plaintiff and other known bondholders, 2 Cir., 233 F.2d 468. Upon the remand, the District Court entered judgment dismissing plaintiff’s complaint and the claims of the other known bondholders, and they have filed an appeal from this judgment. Motions have been made to dismiss the appeal as frivolous on the ground that we previously decided that these claimants have no rights in or to the fund.
[1] [2] The motions are denied. Evidently our opinion on the prior appeal was not sufficiently explicit. We did not intend to preclude the claimants from proceeding upon some new theory based upon new facts other than those considered in the claim we rejected; nor did we intend to prejudge any application for leave to serve an amended complaint. Accordingly, as the dismissal appears to be based upon a misunderstanding of the purpose and effect of the remand, we now vacate the judgment of dismissal and again remand the case in order that all issues raised by the pleadings, other than the claim we have already rejected, be determined.
 
All Citations
242 F.2d 148
End of Document

© 2017 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.


