

 


Mina v. Chester County
United States Court of Appeals, Third Circuit. | February 8, 2017 | 679 Fed.Appx. 192 | 2017 WL 532298

Document Details

Outline
Synopsis
West Headnotes
Attorneys and Law Firms
Opinion
All Citations

standard Citation:

Mina v. Chester Cty., 679 F. App’x 192 (3d Cir. 2017)

All Citations:

679 Fed.Appx. 192

Search Details

Search Query:

adv: NAME(”wells fargo”)

Jurisdiction:

Pennsylvania

Delivery Details

Date:

November 18, 2017 at 3:08 AM

Delivered By:

Vincent Sheu

Client ID:

SHEU VINCENT




679 Fed.Appx. 192
This case was not selected for publication in West’s Federal Reporter.
See Fed. Rule of Appellate Procedure 32.1 generally governing citation of judicial decisions issued on or after Jan. 1, 2007. See also U.S.Ct. of Appeals 3rd Cir. App. I, IOP 5.1, 5.3, and 5.7.
United States Court of Appeals,
Third Circuit.
Anthony S. MINA; TLC Dreams Foundation; The Truth Today for a Better Tomorrow Political Committee
v.
CHESTER COUNTY; Chester County Court of Common Pleas; President Judge James P. Macelree; Judge Anthony A. Sarcione; Judge Thomas G. Gavin; Judge Jacqueline Carroll Cody; Judge Katherine B.L. Platt; Judge Mark L. Tunnell; Judge John L. Braxton; Chester County Domestic Relations Section, CCDRS; CCDRS Director Joseph M. Waters; William R. Whitehead, CCDRS Deputy Director; CCDRS Robin Kelly; Cathy Smith, CCDRS Administrative Secretary; Shauna Johnson, CCDRS Enforcement Officer; Mary Jones, CCDRS Staff Attorney; Richard Lombardi, CCDRS Hearing Officer; Rose Anderson, CCDRS Hearing Officer; Janet Snyder, Family Court Secretary; Robert E. Kyle, Director of Juvenile Probation; William Handy, Chester County Court Reporter Chief; Thomas Hogan, Chester County District Attorney CCDA; CCDA Peter Hobart; CCDA Joseph Carroll, Former DA; CCDA Cristin Kubacke; CCDA Charles Gaza; West Chester Police Department, WCPD; WCPD Chief Scott Bohn; WCPD Detective Stan Billie; WCPD Sgt. Louis Deschullo; WCPD Officer Greg Cugino; Danielle Cugino, Chester County Probation Collection Officer; Keith Laurer, Chester County Probation Officer; John R. Merrick, Chester County Public Defender; Nathan Shenker, Chester County Public Defender; Bryan Walters, Prothonotary; Daily Local News Courthouse; Attorney General Pennsylvania; Attorney Leonard J. Rivera; Attorney Dawson Richard Muth; Attorney Eric Trajtenberg; Daily Local Newspaper; Federal Court Judge Luis Felipe Restrepo; Federal Court Judge Mithcell S. Goldberg; Charles Maines, Chester County Probation Officer; Wells Fargo Bank; Optima Web Design/ENET, (Ron Shur, Nick Potopov); Judge Bernard A. Moore; Lumber Liquidators; Delaware County; Delaware County Juvenile Detention Center; Mark A. Murray, Director of Del. County Juvenile Detention; Medcenter 100; District Judge William Kraut; Chester County Hospital; Michael J. Duncan, CC Hosp. CEO; West Goshen Township; West Goshen Police Department; John J. Liss, West Goshen Police Officer Anthony S. Mina, Appellant
No. 16-1002
|
Submitted Pursuant to Third Circuit LAR 34.1(a) September 1, 2016
|
(Opinion filed: February 8, 2017)
Synopsis
Background: Plaintiff brought pro se action on behalf of himself and two corporate entities against a group of 62 defendants that included federal and state court judges, attorneys, municipal entities, and others, alleging that defendants engaged in criminal and civil conspiracy against him. The United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, Edward G. Smith, J., 2015 WL 6550543, dismissed the action. Plaintiff appealed.
 
Holdings: The Court of Appeals held that:
 
[1] claims were absolutely devoid of merit and obviously frivolous, requiring dismissal for lack of subject-matter jurisdiction, and
 
[2] judge was not required to recuse himself.
 
Affirmed.
 


West Headnotes (2)


[1]

Federal CourtsDismissal or other disposition


170BFederal Courts
170BIVCases ‘Arising Under‘ Federal Law;  Federal-Question Jurisdiction
170BIV(E)Objections, Proceedings, and Determination
170Bk2362Dismissal or other disposition


Claims brought by plaintiff, on behalf of himself and two corporate entities, seeking relief against a group of 62 defendants that included judges, attorneys, and various officials, were so attenuated and unsubstantial as to be absolutely devoid of merit and obviously frivolous, and thus had to be dismissed for lack of subject-matter jurisdiction, given that plaintiff tried to connect his allegations about actions and events over approximately 20 years into a vast conspiracy against him, and the outlandish nature of some of his claims, such as planting of devices on his body and defendants’ revenge for his refusal to participate in cover-up of circumstances surrounding the death of an FBI agent’s wife.
Cases that cite this headnote



[2]

JudgesRights and duties of judge as to recusal


227Judges
227IVDisqualification to Act
227k50Rights and duties of judge as to recusal


Judge was not required to recuse himself from plaintiff’s action against group of 62 defendants that included judges, attorneys, and various officials, even though he also was a named defendant in the action, since there was no evidence he was biased against plaintiff, nor would any reasonable person have doubted his impartiality, and the addition of his name to long list of conspirators, which already included other judges that had ruled against plaintiff, was an attempt to bring a baseless suit against the judge. 28 U.S.C.A. §§ 144, 455(a).
Cases that cite this headnote



On Appeal from the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, (D.C. Civil Action No. 2:14-cv-06261), District Judge: Honorable Edward G. Smith
Attorneys and Law Firms
Anthony S. Mina, Pro Se
Guy A. Donatelli, Esq., Rachel E. Lusk, Esq., Lamb McErlane, West Chester, PA, for Defendant-Appellee Chester County
Martha Gale, Esq., Administrative Office of Pennsylvania Courts, Administrative *194 Office of Pennsylvania Courts, Philadelphia, PA, for Defendants-Appellees Chester County Court of Common Pleas, James P. Macelree, II, Anthony A. Sarcione, Thomas G. Gavin, Jacqueline Cody, Katherine B.L. Platt, Mark L. Tunnell, John L. Braxton, Chester County Domestic Relations CCDRS, Bernard A. Moore, William Kraut
Theresa Giamanco, Esq., Michael B. Pullano, Esq., Weber Gallagher Simpson Stapleton Fires & Newby, Philadelphia, PA, for Defendants-Appellees Mary Jones, Thomas P. Hogan, Peter Hobart, Joseph A. Carroll, Cristin Kubacke, Charles Gaza, John R. Merrick, Nathan Shenker
Barry N. Kramer, Esq., Claudia M. Tesoro, Esq., Office of Attorney General of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, for Defendant-Appellee Attorney General Pennsylvania
Joshua L. Kirsch, Esq., Jeffrey P. Lewis, Esq., Eckert Seamans Cherin & Mellott, Philadelphia, PA, for Defendants-Appellees Leonard J. Rivera, Eric Trajtenberg
Dawson R. Muth, Esq., Goldberg Meanix McCallin & Muth, West Chester, PA, for Defendant-Appellee Dawson R. Muth
Eric D. Gill, Esq., Office of United States Attorney, Philadelphia, PA, for Defendants-Appellees L. Felipe Restrepo, Mitchell S. Goldberg
Steven B. Kantrowitz, Esq., Kantrowitz & Phillippi, Philadelphia, PA, for Defendant-Appellee Wells Fargo Bank
Timothy P. Mullin, Esq., Zarwin Baum DeVito Kaplan Schaer & Toddy, Marlton, NJ, for Defendant-Appellee Lumber Liquidators
Suzanne McDonough, Esq., Holsten & Associates, Media, PA, for Defendants-Appellees Delaware County, Delaware County Juvenile Detention Center, Mark A. Murray
Mark J. Hermanovich, Esq., Kilcoyne & Nesbitt, Blue Bell, PA, Elaine M. Ross, Esq., McCumber Daniels Buntz Hartig & Puig, Norristown, PA, for Medcenter 100
John Larkin, Esq., Gawthrop Greenwood, West Chester, PA, for Defendants Chester County Hospital, Michael J. Duncan
Rufus A. Jennings, Esq., John P. Morgenstern, Esq., Deasey Mahoney & Valentini, Philadelphia, PA, for Defendants-Appellees West Goshen Township, West Goshen Police Department, John J. Liss
Before: CHAGARES, JORDAN and ROTH, Circuit Judges


OPINION*

PER CURIAM
In March 2015, Anthony Mina filed a lengthy and far-ranging amended complaint on behalf of himself and two corporate entities (The Truth Today for a Better Tomorrow Political Committee and the TLC Dreams Foundation) describing a vast conspiracy against him orchestrated by a group of 62 defendants that he dubbed the “Chester County Molluscum Penis Crime Family.”1 The complaint reads like an autobiography of approximately 20 years of his life, highlighting his arrests, conflicts with the mother of one of his children, and his interactions with the judicial system. The allegations reach as far back as 1996, when he was detained as a juvenile delinquent. (Although the complaint *195 is not entirely clear, he seems to suggest that a sort of rash that he got at that time was an effort by the defendants to use his penis as a “power plant” or to plant devices on him to control his actions and monitor his behavior. Amended Complaint at ¶¶ 963-94.) Mina blames the defendants for all wrongs that have befallen him, including his commitment to a mental institution, employment troubles, child-custody issues, and health concerns. (Among other things, he thinks they are punishing him because he will not “be a part of [the defendants’] lies,” including a cover-up relating to the death of an FBI agent’s wife. Amended Complaint at ¶¶ 1038-43.)
 
After dealing with a great number of motions and other filings and after holding hearings, the District Court dismissed Mina’s case for lack of subject-matter jurisdiction. At that time, the District Judge also denied Mina’s request that he recuse. Mina appeals.2
 
We have jurisdiction under 28 U.S.C. § 1291.3 Our review of the order dismissing the complaint is plenary. See Treasurer of New Jersey v. U.S. Dep’t of Treasury, 684 F.3d 382, 395 (3d Cir. 2012). Upon review, we conclude that the District Court correctly concluded that subject-matter jurisdiction is lacking over Mina’s claims.
 
[1]Under the circumstances, Mina’s claims can be considered to be “so attenuated and unsubstantial as to be absolutely devoid of merit,” “wholly insubstantial,” “obviously frivolous,” “plainly unsubstantial,” or “no longer open to discussion.” Hagans v. Lavine, 415 U.S. 528, 536-37, 94 S.Ct. 1372, 39 L.Ed.2d 577 (1974) (citations omitted). Given Mina’s efforts to connect his allegations about actions and events over approximately 20 years into a vast conspiracy against him, as well as the outlandish nature of some of his claims (such as the planting of devices on his body and the defendants’ revenge for his refusal to participate in the cover-up of the circumstances surrounding the death of an FBI agent’s wife), we will affirm the District Court’s ruling on the District Court’s reasoning.4
 
[2]We also hold that the District Judge did not abuse its discretion in declining to recuse. There is no evidence in the record that the District Judge was biased against Mina. He entertained notices and motions of all sorts and gave Mina generous opportunities (including at hearings) to explain the basis of his claims. Second, recusal is not necessary because a reasonable person, with knowledge of the relevant facts and circumstances, would not doubt the District Judge’s impartiality. See Edelstein v. Wilentz, 812 F.2d 128, 131 (3d Cir. 1987). Mina’s dissatisfaction with *196 the District Court’s rulings does not warrant recusal. See Securacomm Consulting, Inc. v. Securacom Inc., 224 F.3d 273, 278 (3d Cir. 2000) (“We have repeatedly stated that a party’s displeasure with legal rulings does not form an adequate basis for recusal.”). Mina sought to name the District Judge as a defendant in the action (in an unauthorized amendment to the complaint) (and has since filed suit against him). However, the addition of the District Judge’s name to the long list of conspirators, which already included other judges that had ruled against Mina, was an attempt to bring a baseless suit against the District Judge. It was not a basis for recusal. See, e.g., Azubuko v. Royal, 443 F.3d 302, 304 (3d Cir. 2006) (“[T]he mere fact that [a judge] may be one of the numerous federal judges that [a litigant] has filed suit against is not sufficient to establish that ... recusal from his case is warranted under 28 U.S.C. § 144 or § 455(a).”).
 
In short, we will affirm the District Court’s judgment. Appellant’s motions are denied.
 
All Citations
679 Fed.Appx. 192
Footnotes

*

This disposition is not an opinion of the full Court and pursuant to I.O.P. 5.7 does not constitute binding precedent.

1

The two corporate entities have been dismissed from this appeal. Order of April 4, 2016.

2

Mina also submits a letter to inform us that a criminal and civil conspiracy has “engulfed” the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania and another letter in which he accuses the District Judge of corruption.

3

One of the appellees asks us to dismiss the appeal from the order dismissing the complaint for lack of jurisdiction on the basis that the appeal was untimely filed. However, Mina filed his notice of appeal within the time permitted. The District Court entered its order on October 29, 2015. Mina filed a timely motion for reconsideration, which tolled the time to appeal until the District Court ruled on November 10, 2015. See Fed. R. App. P. 4(a)(4). On December 31, 2015, Mina timely filed his notice of appeal within the 60 days allotted. See Fed. R. App. P. 4(a)(1)(B).

4

It is not entirely clear whether Mina, whose appeal was also timely as to the orders denying his motion for reconsideration and denying his Rule 60(b) motion, challenges those decisions in his brief. We note, however, that neither reconsideration nor reopening was warranted.


End of Document

© 2017 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.


