

 


In re Onco Inv. Co.
United States Court of Appeals, Third Circuit. | January 24, 2007 | 222 Fed.Appx. 100 | 2007 WL 173779

Document Details

Outline
Synopsis
West Headnotes
Attorneys and Law Firms
Opinion
All Citations

standard Citation:

In re Onco Inv. Co., 222 F. App’x 100 (3d Cir. 2007)

All Citations:

222 Fed.Appx. 100, 2007 WL 173779

Search Details

Search Query:

adv: NAME(”wells fargo”)

Jurisdiction:

Delaware

Delivery Details

Date:

November 18, 2017 at 3:08 AM

Delivered By:

Vincent Sheu

Client ID:

SHEU VINCENT




222 Fed.Appx. 100
This case was not selected for publication in the Federal Reporter.
Not for Publication in West’s Federal Reporter.
See Fed. Rule of Appellate Procedure 32.1 generally governing citation of judicial decisions issued on or after Jan. 1, 2007. See also Third Circuit LAR, App. I, IOP 5.7. (Find CTA3 App. I, IOP 5.7)
United States Court of Appeals,
Third Circuit.
In re: ONCO INVESTMENT COMPANY, et al.
MW Post Portfolio Fund Ltd.; DB Distressed Opportunities Fund Ltd.; Post Opportunity Fund L.P.; Post Total Return Fund L.P.; HFR DS Opportunity Master Trust; Opportunity Fund LLC; MW Post Opportunity Offshore Fund Ltd.; South Dakota Investment Council; Concordia Mac29 Ltd; JME Offshore Opportunity Fund LTD; Offshore Opportunity Fund II LTD; Restoration Capital Management LLC; Restoration Holdings Ltd.; Litespeed Master Fund; MW Post Portfolio Fund LTD, et al., Appellants
v.
Northwest Bank Minnesota, National Association as Indenture Trustee for the 10% Senior Subordinate Notes Due February 1, 2009 of Oglebay Norton Company also known as Wells Fargo Bank MN National Association; Oglebay Norton Company; Depository Trust Company, Appellees.
No. 05–4857.
|
Argued: Nov. 8, 2006.
|
Opinion Filed Jan. 24, 2007.
Synopsis
Background: After issuer of notes filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy, senior noteholders commenced adversary proceeding to contest their treatment under proposed plan of reorganization. The Bankruptcy Court confirmed the plan, and senior noteholders appealed. The United States District Court for the District of Delaware, Sue L. Robinson, J., 2005 WL 2401908, dismissed the appeal on constitutional mootness grounds. Senior noteholders appealed.
 
Holdings: The Court of Appeals, Stapleton, Circuit Judge, held that:
 
[1] claims for turnover and money damages asserted against indenture trustee for holders of certain subordinated notes that debtor had issued and for turnover against disbursing agent for property that was to be distributed to subordinated noteholders under plan of reorganization were moot;
 
[2] disbursing agent did not have a duty to turn over property it received on account of subordinated noteholders to senior noteholders; and
 
[3] plan’s savings clause did not create or preserve any liability on the part of disbursing agent.
 
Judgment affirmed.
 


West Headnotes (5)


[1]

Federal CourtsBankruptcy


170BFederal Courts
170BIIICase or Controversy Requirement
170BIII(B)Particular Cases, Contexts, and Questions
170Bk2181Bankruptcy
(Formerly 170Bk13)


Claims for turnover and money damages asserted by senior noteholders against indenture trustee for holders of certain subordinated notes that Chapter 11 debtor had issued were rendered moot when trustee was replaced in the chain of property distribution by disbursing agent for property that was to be distributed to subordinated noteholders under plan of reorganization.
Cases that cite this headnote



[2]

Federal CourtsBankruptcy


170BFederal Courts
170BIIICase or Controversy Requirement
170BIII(B)Particular Cases, Contexts, and Questions
170Bk2181Bankruptcy
(Formerly 170Bk13)


Claims for turnover asserted by senior noteholders against disbursing agent for property that was to be distributed to subordinated noteholders under Chapter 11 plan of reorganization were rendered moot when agent, in accordance with plan, distributed all of the property at issue to subordinated noteholders.
Cases that cite this headnote



[3]

BankruptcyMoot questions


51Bankruptcy
51XIXReview
51XIX(B)Review of Bankruptcy Court
51k3781Moot questions


Although senior noteholders successfully negotiated with Chapter 11 debtor to include a “savings clause” in plan of reorganization, which noteholders insisted was intended to preserve their right to litigate appeal from order confirming the plan, a jurisdictional defect of mootness could not be overcome by agreement of the parties.
Cases that cite this headnote



[4]

BankruptcyConstruction, execution, and performance


51Bankruptcy
51XIVReorganization
51XIV(B)The Plan
51k3570Construction, execution, and performance


Disbursing agent for property that was to be distributed to subordinated noteholders under plan of reorganization, which was not a party to senior noteholder agreement, did not have a duty to turn over property it received on account of subordinated noteholders or pay the equivalent amount in money damages to senior noteholders under the agreement; agent’s responsibility under the plan was limited to making distribution in accordance with the final, court-approved plan, a task which it performed.
Cases that cite this headnote



[5]

BankruptcyConstruction, execution, and performance


51Bankruptcy
51XIVReorganization
51XIV(B)The Plan
51k3570Construction, execution, and performance


Savings clause of Chapter 11 debtor’s proposed plan of reorganization did not create or preserve any liability on the part of disbursing agent for property that was to be distributed to subordinated noteholders under plan; as contemplated by saving clause, order in Chapter 11 proceeding confirming the plan became final when senior noteholders failed to appeal it, and agent then, quite properly, distributed property it received in accordance with the final, court-approved plan.
Cases that cite this headnote



*101 On Appeal from the United States District Court for the District of Delaware, (D.C. Civil Action Nos. 04–cv–01543 to 04–cv–01546), District Judge: Hon. Sue L. Robinson.
Attorneys and Law Firms
Brian A. Sullivan, Amy D. Brown, Werb & Sullivan, Wilmington, DE, and Bruce Bennett, James O. Johnston, (Argued) Joshua M. Mester, Hennigan, Bennett & Dorman, Los Angeles, CA, for Appellants.
William Weintraub, Laura D. Jones, Pachulski, Stang, Ziehl, Young, Jones & Weintraub, Wilmington, DE, and Richard W. Reinthaler, Dianne F. Coffino, (Argued) Dewey Ballantine, New York, NY, for Appellees Wells Fargo Bank, National Association and Oglebay Norton Company.
Daniel J. DeFranceschi, Richards, Layton & Finger, Wilmington, DE, and Heather Lennox, Cleveland, OH, for Appellee Oglebay Norton Company.
Mark E. Felger, Jeffrey R. Waxman, Cozen & O’Connor, Wilmington, DE, and Gregg M. Mashberg, (Argued) Proskauer Rose, New York, NY, for Appellee Depository Trust Co.
BEFORE: SCIRICA, Chief Judge, McKEE and STAPLETON, Circuit Judges.


OPINION OF THE COURT
STAPLETON, Circuit Judge.
**1 Appellants are holders of Senior Notes issued by Oglebay Norton Company (“Oglebay”) under a Senior Secured Note Purchase Agreement (“Senior Noteholder Agreement”). After Oglebay filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy, appellants commenced this adversary proceeding in the Bankruptcy Court to contest their treatment under Oglebay’s proposed plan of reorganization. In addition to Oglebay, appellants named as defendants Wells Fargo Bank (“Wells Fargo”), in its capacity as Indenture Trustee for holders of certain subordinated notes that Oglebay had issued, and Depository Trust Company (“DTC”), in its capacity as disbursing agent for property to be distributed to the subordinated noteholders under the plan. Appellants sought three forms of relief: *102 (1) a declaration against all defendants that no distributions could be made to subordinated noteholders under the plan unless and until Oglebay fulfilled all of its obligations to appellants; (2) an order requiring Wells Fargo and DTC to turnover any property they received from Oglebay for the benefit of the subordinated noteholders, to the extent necessary to satisfy Oglebay’s obligations to appellants; and (3) money damages against Wells Fargo and DTC in the amount of the value of any property they received from Oglebay for the benefit of the subordinated noteholders.
 
The Bankruptcy Court ruled against appellants on the merits of their claims in both the adversary and Chapter 11 proceedings, and subsequently confirmed Oglebay’s proposed plan of reorganization. Appellants thereafter appealed the Bankruptcy Court’s final judgment in the adversary proceeding to the District Court, but chose not to appeal the Confirmation Order entered by the Bankruptcy Court in the Chapter 11 proceeding. The District Court dismissed the appeal on constitutional mootness grounds, and this timely appeal followed.1 We will affirm the judgment of the District Court for essentially the same reasons set forth in its well-reasoned opinion.
 
[1] [2] [3] We agree with the District Court that appellants’ claims for turnover and money damages against Wells Fargo are moot. Because Wells Fargo was replaced by DTC in the chain of property distribution, it never received any property under the Plan for the benefit of the subordinated noteholders. We also agree with the District Court that appellants’ turnover claim against DTC is moot because DTC has, in accordance with the Plan, already distributed all of the property at issue to the subordinated noteholders. Although appellants successfully negotiated with Oglebay to include a “savings clause” in the Plan which appellants insist was intended to preserve their right to litigate this appeal, a jurisdictional defect such as mootness cannot be overcome by agreement of the parties. See In re DiGiorgio, 134 F.3d 971, 974–75 (9th Cir.1998).
 
[4] Finally, while we would not characterize appellants’ claim for money damages against DTC as “non-justiciable,” as did the District Court, we agree with its observation that appellants have failed to state a damage claim against DTC upon which relief can be granted. Simply put, appellants have failed to identify the source of the duty DTC is alleged to have violated. They insist that DTC had a duty to turn over the property it received on account of the subordinated noteholders (or pay the equivalent amount in money damages) to appellants under the Senior Noteholder Agreement. DTC was not a party to the Senior Noteholder Agreement, however, and its responsibility under the Plan was limited to making distribution in accordance with the final, court-approved Plan, a task which it concededly performed.
 
**2 [5] Contrary to appellants’ argument, the savings clause of the Plan did not create or preserve any liability on the part of DTC. That clause provided: “Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Section XI.C. [relating to the termination of certain subordination rights and settlement of related claims and controversies], any and all rights, arguments and defenses relating to the subordination provisions contained in the [Indenture] are expressly preserved solely for the holders *103 of [the Senior Notes and a class of the subordinated noteholders], the Debtors, the Reorganized Debtors, the Indenture Trustee and the Creditors’ Committee and shall be enforced in accordance with a Final Order of the Bankruptcy Court resolving the parties’ respective rights under such subordination provisions.” App. at 118. “Final Order” is defined in the Plan as follows:
an order or judgment of the Bankruptcy Court, or other court of competent jurisdiction, as entered on the docket in the Chapter 11 Cases or the docket of any other court of competent jurisdiction, that has not been reversed, stayed, modified or amended, and as to which the time to appeal or seek certiorari or move for a new trial, reargument or rehearing has expired, and no appeal or petition for certiorari or other proceedings for a new trial, reargument or rehearing has been timely taken, or as to which any appeal that has been taken or any petition for certiorari that has been timely filed has been withdrawn or resolved by the highest court to which the order or judgment was appealed or from which certiorari was sought or a new trial, reargument or rehearing shall have been denied or resulted in no modification of such order.
App. at 99.
 
The savings clause envisioned the following chronology of events: (a) appellants’ subordination rights and arguments would be finally resolved and enforced by court order; (b) the entry of a final order resolving appellants’ subordination rights and arguments would cut off the savings clause; (c) the Plan would be consummated; and (d) DTC would receive and distribute property in accordance with the Plan. Events in fact unfolded in accordance with this chronology. Appellants affirmatively chose to raise the subordination issues in the Chapter 11 proceeding, as well as the adversary proceeding, and the Bankruptcy Court proceeded to adjudicate the merits of those issues in both proceedings. It then issued an order in the Chapter 11 proceeding resolving those issues and confirming the Plan. That order became final when the appellants failed to appeal it, and DTC then, quite properly, distributed the property it received in accordance with the final, court-approved plan. Appellants have identified no basis for imposing damage liability on DTC, and we perceive none.
 
The judgment of the District Court will be affirmed.
 
All Citations
222 Fed.Appx. 100, 2007 WL 173779
Footnotes

1

Appellants do not challenge the District Court’s mootness finding with respect to their claim for declaratory relief.


End of Document

© 2017 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.


