

 


Gonzales v. Shotgun Creek Las Vegas, L.L.C.
United States Court of Appeals, Ninth Circuit. | June 4, 2014 | 577 Fed.Appx. 709 | 2014 WL 2505243

Document Details

Outline
Synopsis
West Headnotes
Attorneys and Law Firms
Opinion
All Citations

standard Citation:

Gonzales v. Shotgun Creek Las Vegas, L.L.C., 577 F. App’x 709 (9th Cir. 2014)

All Citations:

577 Fed.Appx. 709

Search Details

Search Query:

adv: NAME(”wells fargo”)

Jurisdiction:

Nevada

Delivery Details

Date:

November 18, 2017 at 3:08 AM

Delivered By:

Vincent Sheu

Client ID:

SHEU VINCENT




577 Fed.Appx. 709
This case was not selected for publication in the Federal Reporter.
Not for Publication in West’s Federal Reporter See Fed. Rule of Appellate Procedure 32.1 generally governing citation of judicial decisions issued on or after Jan. 1, 2007. See also Ninth Circuit Rule 36-3. (Find CTA9 Rule 36-3)
United States Court of Appeals,
Ninth Circuit.
Tom GONZALES, Plaintiff–Appellant,
v.
SHOTGUN CREEK LAS VEGAS, L.L.C., Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., Desert Land, L.L.C., Desert Oasis Apartments, L.L.C., and Desert Oasis Investments, L.L.C., Defendants–Appellees.
Nos. 12–16302, 13–16015.
|
Argued and Submitted April 11, 2014.
|
Filed June 4, 2014.
Synopsis
Background: Creditor brought action in state court arising out of alleged breach of settlement agreement that was part of confirmed plan in Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceeding. Following removal, the United States District Court for the District of Nevada, Robert C. Jones, J., 2011 WL 6140671, granted summary judgment in favor of debtors, and, 2014 WL 132134, denied creditor’s motion to stay proceedings and judgment pending appeal. Creditor appealed.
 
Holdings: The Court of Appeals held that:
 
[1] no lien was created by express contract between the parties;
 
[2] option transactions did not constitute a parcel transfer triggering parcel transfer fee; and
 
[3] preliminary injunction was not warranted absent showing of likelihood of success on the merits.
 
Affirmed.
 


West Headnotes (3)


[1]

BankruptcyConstruction, execution, and performance


51Bankruptcy
51XIVReorganization
51XIV(B)The Plan
51k3570Construction, execution, and performance


Parties to settlement agreement that was part of confirmed plan in Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceeding did not intend that parcel transfer fee be a lien on the parcel, and, thus, under Nevada law, no lien was created by express contract; the agreement provided that parcel transfer fee was not a mortgage, deed of trust, or other lien on the parcel, and the agreement contained no language suggesting that the transfer fee was anything but a right to receive a certain sum of money in the event of a parcel transfer.
Cases that cite this headnote



[2]

BankruptcyConstruction, execution, and performance


51Bankruptcy
51XIVReorganization
51XIV(B)The Plan
51k3570Construction, execution, and performance


Option transactions did not constitute a parcel transfer, as would trigger obligation to pay parcel transfer fee pursuant to settlement agreement that was part of confirmed plan in Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceeding, where debtor’s conveyance of the option was neither a parcel equity transfer nor a sale, transfer, or other conveyance of all or any part of the parcel.
Cases that cite this headnote



[3]

BankruptcyPreliminary injunctions and restraining orders


51Bankruptcy
51IVEffect of Bankruptcy Relief;  Injunction and Stay
51IV(A)In General
51k2363Protection Against Discrimination or Collection Efforts in General;  “Fresh Start.”
51k2374Preliminary injunctions and restraining orders


Creditor seeking preliminary injunction failed to show that he had substantial likelihood of success on merits of claim that parcel transfer fee was due pursuant to settlement agreement that was part of confirmed plan in Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceeding.
Cases that cite this headnote



Attorneys and Law Firms
*709 Matthew Scott Carter, J. Randall Jones, Kemp Jones & Coulthard LLP, Las Vegas, NV, for Plaintiff–Appellant.
Emelia Allen, Lenard Schwartzer, Schwartzer & McPherson Law Firm, Las Vegas, NV, Douglas D. Gerrard, Gerrard Cox & Larsen, Henderson, NV, Sallie B. Armstrong, Downey Brand, LLP, Reno, NV, for Defendants–Appellees.
Appeal from the United States District Court for the District of Nevada, Robert C. Jones, District Judge, Presiding. D.C. *710 No. 3:11–cv–00613–RCJ–VPC, D.C. No. 2:13–cv–00931–RCJ–VPC.
Before: SCHROEDER and CALLAHAN, Circuit Judges, and PRATT, Senior District Judge.*


MEMORANDUM**
Tom Gonzales (“Gonzales”) appeals the district court’s decisions: (1) granting summary judgment to Specialty Trust, Inc., Specialty Mortgage Corp., Specialty Strategic Financing Fund, L.P. (collectively “Specialty Defendants”1), and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (“Wells Fargo”), finding that the parties to the settlement agreement (“Agreement”) did not intend that the Parcel A Transfer Fee constitute a lien on Parcel A; (2) granting summary judgment to Desert Land, L.L.C. (“Desert Land”), Desert Oasis Apartments, L.L.C., and Desert Oasis Investments, L.L.C. (“Desert Investments”) (collectively “Desert Entities”), finding that the FLT Option Transactions2 did not give rise to the obligation to pay the Parcel A Transfer Fee; and (3) denying Gonzales’s motion for a preliminary injunction, finding that he did not show a likelihood of irreparable harm. We have jurisdiction pursuant to 28 U.S.C. §§ 1291 and 1292(a)(1), and we affirm the district court’s decisions.
 

I
[1] Under Nevada law, when, as in this case, it is claimed that a lien arises out of an express contract, the parties’ intent to create the lien must be clearly indicated on the face of the agreement. Union Indem. Co. v. A.D. Drumm, Jr., Inc., 57 Nev. 242, 70 P.2d 767, 768 (1937) (per curiam). Because the Agreement’s § 1.1(b) provides that the Parcel A Transfer Fee is not a mortgage, deed of trust, or other lien on Parcel A, the district court correctly concluded that the parties to the Agreement did not intend that this transfer fee be a lien on Parcel A. Similarly, the district court also correctly concluded that the Parcel A Transfer Fee was not a preemptive property right as the Agreement contains no language suggesting that the transfer fee was anything but a right to receive a certain sum of money in the event of a Parcel A Transfer.3
 

II
[2] Under the terms of the Agreement, the obligation to pay the Parcel A Transfer Fee arises only upon the occurrence of a Parcel A Transfer, defined as:
either: (a) the sale, transfer or other conveyance of any legal or beneficial interest in the entity or entities that own Parcel A (a “Parcel A Equity Transfer”); *711 or (b) the sale, transfer or other conveyance of all or any part of Parcel A, other than (i) a Parcel A Mortgage or (ii) sales, transfers or other conveyances of purchases for easements or to realign property lines, or condemnations involving less than 5% of the gross Parcel A land area.
The FLT Option Transactions do not constitute a Parcel A Transfer because Desert Land’s conveyance of the FLT Option to Desert Investments was neither a Parcel A Equity Transfer nor a “sale, transfer or other conveyance of all or any part of Parcel A.” Nor was Desert Investments’ subsequent exercise of the Option a qualifying transfer of Parcel A, such that it gave rise to the obligation to pay the Parcel A Transfer Fee. Accordingly, the district court correctly determined that the FLT Option Transactions did not trigger the obligation to pay the Parcel A Transfer Fee.4
 

III
[3] The district court denied Gonzales’s motion for a preliminary injunction, concluding that he had not shown a likelihood of irreparable harm. Even assuming that Gonzales had shown a likelihood of irreparable harm, he has not demonstrated the requisite likelihood of success on the merits. See Alliance for the Wild Rockies v. Cottrell, 632 F.3d 1127, 1133 (9th Cir.2011). Indeed, his claim that the Parcel A Transfer Fee was due was premised solely on the FLT Option Transactions. As explained in Section II, however, these transactions did not trigger the obligation to pay the Parcel A Transfer Fee to Gonzales because they did not constitute a Parcel A Transfer, as defined by the Agreement.
 
AFFIRMED.
 
All Citations
577 Fed.Appx. 709
Footnotes

*

The Honorable Robert W. Pratt, Senior United States District Judge for the Southern District of Iowa, sitting by designation.

**

This disposition is not appropriate for publication and is not precedent except as provided by 9th Cir. R. 36–3.

1

Shotgun Creek Las Vegas, L.L.C. (“Shotgun Creek”) is the successor in interest to Specialty Defendants. However, for consistency and ease of reference, we will refer to Specialty Defendants because they were parties to the district court proceedings, not Shotgun Creek.

2

We use the term “FLT Option Transactions” to collectively refer to Desert Land’s transfer of the FLT Option to Desert Investments and Desert Investments’ exercise of the Option.

3

In the absence of any showing that additional materials would have potentially affected the case, we find no error in the district court’s decision to grant summary judgment for Specialty Defendants and Wells Fargo without giving Gonzales an opportunity to amend his complaint (even though he requested leave to do so) or to submit any additional materials that he deemed pertinent to the disposition of his claims on summary judgment.

4

We find no error in the district court’s refusal to consider the evidence concerning the so-called Shotgun transfers prior to granting summary judgment to the Desert Entities, given that this issue was not timely raised. Additionally, we find that the district court did not err in denying Gonzales’s motion for leave to amend his complaint to include appropriate allegations pertaining to these Shotgun transfers.


End of Document

© 2017 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.


