

 


Bald v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.
United States Court of Appeals, Ninth Circuit. | April 24, 2017 | 688 Fed.Appx. 472 | 2017 WL 1433314

Document Details

Outline
Synopsis
West Headnotes
Attorneys and Law Firms
Opinion
All Citations

standard Citation:

Bald v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., 688 F. App’x 472 (9th Cir. 2017)

All Citations:

688 Fed.Appx. 472

Search Details

Search Query:

adv: NAME(”wells fargo”)

Jurisdiction:

Hawaii

Delivery Details

Date:

November 18, 2017 at 3:22 AM

Delivered By:

Vincent Sheu

Client ID:

SHEU VINCENT




688 Fed.Appx. 472
This case was not selected for publication in West’s Federal Reporter.
See Fed. Rule of Appellate Procedure 32.1 generally governing citation of judicial decisions issued on or after Jan. 1, 2007. See also U.S.Ct. of App. 9th Cir. Rule 36-3.
United States Court of Appeals,
Ninth Circuit.
David Emory BALD, individually and on behalf of all others similarly situated; Emily Lelis, individually and on behalf of all others similarly situated, Plaintiffs-Appellants,
v.
WELLS FARGO BANK, N.A., a national banking association; Doe Defendants 1-50, Defendants-Appellees.
No. 13-16622
|
Argued and Submitted October 13, 2015 Honolulu, Hawaii
|
Filed April 24, 2017
Synopsis
Background: Home mortgagors brought putative class action against mortgagee, alleging that mortgagee’s nonjudicial foreclosure sales of mortgagors’ homes violated a Hawai‘i statute prohibiting unfair or deceptive acts or practices in the conduct of any trade or commerce with consumers. The United States District Court for the District of Hawai‘i, No. 1:13-cv-00135-SOM-KSC, Susan Oki Mollway, J., 2013 WL 3864449, granted mortgagee’s motion to dismiss. Mortgagors appealed.
 
Holdings: The Court of Appeals held that:
 
[1] mortgagors were “consumers” with respect to mortgagee, as basis for statutory standing;
 
[2] mortgagors sufficiently alleged the unfairness of mortgagee’s practice of advertising in its notice of nonjudicial foreclosure sale only that quitclaim deeds would be provided to winning bidder;
 
[3] mortgagors sufficiently alleged the unfairness of mortgagee’s practice of postponing foreclosure sales without publishing notice; and
 
[4] claims of unfairness were not subject to requirement of pleading fraud with particularity.
 
Reversed and remanded.
 


West Headnotes (5)


[1]

Antitrust and Trade RegulationConsumers, purchasers, and buyers;  consumer transactions


29TAntitrust and Trade Regulation
29TIIIStatutory Unfair Trade Practices and Consumer Protection
29TIII(A)In General
29Tk139Persons and Transactions Covered Under General Statutes
29Tk141Consumers, purchasers, and buyers;  consumer transactions


Home mortgagors were “consumers” with respect to mortgagee, as basis for statutory standing to bring action alleging that mortgagee’s nonjudicial foreclosure sales of mortgagors’ homes violated a Hawai‘i statute prohibiting unfair or deceptive acts or practices in the conduct of any trade or commerce with consumers; underlying transactions involved committing money in a personal investment by purchasing residential property through acquiring a loan. Haw. Rev. Stat. §§ 480-1, 480-2.
Cases that cite this headnote



[2]

Antitrust and Trade RegulationCommunications, representations, and notices;  debtor’s response


29TAntitrust and Trade Regulation
29TIIIStatutory Unfair Trade Practices and Consumer Protection
29TIII(C)Particular Subjects and Regulations
29Tk210Debt Collection
29Tk214Communications, representations, and notices;  debtor’s response


Home mortgagors sufficiently alleged that mortgagee’s practices for nonjudicial foreclosures were unfair, as required to state a claim for violation of Hawai‘i statute prohibiting unfair acts or practices in the conduct of any trade or commerce with consumers, by alleging that mortgagee’s practice of advertising in its notices of nonjudicial foreclosure sales only that quitclaim deeds would be provided to winning bidders, despite fact that mortgagee sometimes provided limited warranty deeds, offended public policy as established by Hawai‘i common law, which imposed a duty to exercise reasonable diligence to secure the best possible prices. Haw. Rev. Stat. §§ 480-2, 667-5.
Cases that cite this headnote



[3]

Antitrust and Trade RegulationQuestions of law or fact


29TAntitrust and Trade Regulation
29TIIIStatutory Unfair Trade Practices and Consumer Protection
29TIII(E)Enforcement and Remedies
29TIII(E)5Actions
29Tk361Proceedings;  Trial
29Tk363Questions of law or fact


Whether mortgagee’s alleged practice of advertising in its notices of nonjudicial foreclosure sales only that quitclaim deeds would be provided to winning bidders, despite fact that mortgagee sometimes provided limited warranty deeds, was unfair was a question of fact rather than a question of law, in mortgagors’ action alleging violation of Hawai‘i statute prohibiting unfair acts or practices in the conduct of any trade or commerce with consumers. Haw. Rev. Stat. §§ 480-2, 667-5.
Cases that cite this headnote



[4]

Antitrust and Trade RegulationPractices prohibited or required in general


29TAntitrust and Trade Regulation
29TIIIStatutory Unfair Trade Practices and Consumer Protection
29TIII(C)Particular Subjects and Regulations
29Tk210Debt Collection
29Tk213Practices prohibited or required in general


Home mortgagors sufficiently alleged that mortgagee’s practices for nonjudicial foreclosures were unfair, as required to state a claim for violation of Hawai‘i statute prohibiting unfair acts or practices in the conduct of any trade or commerce with consumers, by alleging that mortgagee’s practice of postponing foreclosure sales without publishing notices violated the terms of the mortgages and violated mortgagee’s common law duty to use fair and reasonable means to conduct foreclosure sales in a manner that was conducive to obtaining the best price under the circumstances. Haw. Rev. Stat. §§ 480-2, 667-5.
Cases that cite this headnote



[5]

Antitrust and Trade RegulationParticular cases
Federal Civil ProcedureFraud, mistake and condition of mind


29TAntitrust and Trade Regulation
29TIIIStatutory Unfair Trade Practices and Consumer Protection
29TIII(E)Enforcement and Remedies
29TIII(E)5Actions
29Tk356Pleading
29Tk358Particular cases
170AFederal Civil Procedure
170AVIIPleadings
170AVII(A)Pleadings in General
170Ak633Certainty, Definiteness and Particularity
170Ak636Fraud, mistake and condition of mind


Home mortgagors’ claims, that mortgagee’s nonjudicial foreclosure sales of mortgagors’ homes violated a Hawai‘i statute prohibiting unfair acts or practices in the conduct of any trade or commerce with consumers, were not subject to the requirement of pleading fraud with particularity. Fed. R. Civ. P. 9(b); Haw. Rev. Stat. § 480-2.
Cases that cite this headnote



*474 Appeal from the United States District Court for the District of Hawaii, Susan Oki Mollway, District Judge, Presiding, D.C. No. 1:13-cv-00135-SOM-KSC
Attorneys and Law Firms
James J. Bickerton, Attorney, Bickerton Dang, Honolulu, HI, Brandee J. K. Faria, Attorney, John Francis Perkin, Attorney, Perkin & Faria LLC, Honolulu, HI, Plaintiffs-Appellants
Paul D. Alston, Esquire, Attorney, Pamela W. Bunn, Esquire, Attorney, J. Blaine Rogers, Esquire, Attorney, Alston Hunt Floyd & Ing, Honolulu, HI, for Defendant-Appellee
Before: O’SCANNLAIN, TALLMAN, and M. SMITH, Circuit Judges.


MEMORANDUM*
In this putative class action, David Emory Bald and Emily Lelis (collectively, Plaintiffs) contend that defendant Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (Wells Fargo) violated Hawaii Revised Statutes (HRS) § 480-2 in connection with the nonjudicial foreclosure sales of Plaintiffs’ homes. HRS § 480-2(a) prohibits “unfair or deceptive acts or practices in the conduct of any trade or commerce,” including acts that violate common law duties. Kapunakea Partners v. Equilon Enters. LLC, 679 F.Supp.2d 1203, 1209–10 (D. Haw. 2009) (quoting HRS § 480-2(a)). Plaintiffs allege that Wells Fargo violated its common law duty to exercise its power of sale in a manner that does not unreasonably damage the debtor by (1) advertising in its notice of sale that only a quitclaim deed would be provided to the winning bidder, despite the fact that it sometimes provided a limited warranty deed; and (2) not publishing notices of postponement of foreclosure auctions.
 
The district court granted Wells Fargo’s motion to dismiss, holding that the Hawaii foreclosure statute did not prescribe the form of deed to be offered and allowed postponement via oral announcement, and that the Hawaii common law duty of a mortgagee to not unnecessarily injure the debtor did not apply.
 
[1]I. Wells Fargo argues that Plaintiffs lack standing because they are not “consumers” as to Wells Fargo pursuant to HRS § 480-2. Consumer is defined as “a natural person who, primarily for personal, family, or household purposes, purchases, attempts to purchase, or is solicited to purchase goods or services or who commits money, property, or services in a personal investment.” HRS § 480-1. “In the context of consumer debt, the determination of whether the individual seeking suit is a ‘consumer’ should rest on whether the underlying transaction which gave rise to the obligation met the requirements of HRS § 480-1.” Hungate v. Law Office of David B. Rosen, 139 Hawai’i 394, 391 P.3d 1, 17 (2017) (internal quotation marks and alteration omitted). As in Hungate, the underlying transactions in this case “involved committing money in a personal investment pursuant to HRS § 480-1, namely, purchasing residential property,” and “an individual who purchases residential property through acquiring a loan ... is a ‘consumer’ committing money in a personal investment within the meaning of HRS § 480-1.” Id. Thus, Plaintiffs have standing as consumers.
 
II. Plaintiffs argue that the district court erred by dismissing its claims that, pursuant to HRS § 480-2, Wells Fargo’s practices in conducting nonjudicial foreclosures were unfair or deceptive. “[W]hether a *475 practice constitutes an unfair or deceptive trade practice is ordinarily a question of fact.” Hungate, 391 P.3d at 17. “To determine sufficiency, we accept the allegations made in [Plaintiffs’] complaints as true and view them in the light most favorable to [Plaintiffs].” Id. (internal quotation marks omitted).
 
To violate HRS § 480-2, a practice need only be unfair or deceptive, not both. See State by Bronster v. U.S. Steel Corp., 82 Hawai’i 32,919 P.2d 294, 313 (1996).1 “A practice is unfair when it [1] offends established public policy and [2] when the practice is immoral, unethical, oppressive, unscrupulous or [3] substantially injurious to consumers.” Hungate, 391 P.3d at 18 (internal quotation marks omitted). Plaintiffs “need not allege that [Wells Fargo’s] actions meet all three of these factors to assert an unfair act or practice.” Id. Rather, “[a] practice may be unfair because of the degree to which it meets one of the criteria or because to a lesser extent it meets all three.” Id. (quoting Kapunakea Partners, 679 F.Supp.2d at 1210). “A practice may be unfair if it ‘offends public policy as established by statutes, the common law, or otherwise.’ ” Id. (quoting Kapunakea Partners, 679 F.Supp.2d at 1210).
 
[2]Plaintiffs sufficiently alleged that Wells Fargo’s practices were unfair because they offend public policy as established by the common law. In Hungate, id. at 15, the Hawaii Supreme Court clarified that the common law duties established in Silva v. Lopez, 5 Haw. 262 (1884), and Ulrich v. Security Investment Co., 35 Haw. 158 (1939), apply to a mortgagee in conducting nonjudicial foreclosures. A mortgagee must exercise its “discretion in an intelligent and reasonable manner, not to oppress the debtor or to sacrifice his estate.” Silva, 5 Haw. at 265. In conducting a foreclosure sale a mortgagee must “exercise reasonable diligence to secure the best possible prices,” Ulrich, 35 Haw. at 172, and this duty applies to both real property and chattel mortgages. Hungate, 391 P.3d at 15. Although the law does not impose a duty to obtain fair market value in a foreclosure sale, “the mortgagee nonetheless has a duty to use fair and reasonable means to conduct the foreclosure sale in a manner that is conducive to obtaining the best price under the circumstances.” Id. at 16. Additionally, when the mortgagee purchases the property in a nonjudicial foreclosure sale, the mortgagee “has the burden to establish that the sale was fairly conducted and resulted in an adequate price under the circumstances.” Id.
 
[3]A jury could find that Wells Fargo’s practice of advertising only quitclaim deeds violated its common law duty to “exercise reasonable diligence to secure the best possible prices,” and thus was unfair. Ulrich, 35 Haw. at 172. Because the fairness of a practice is a question of fact, the district court erred by treating the question as one necessarily to be resolved as a categorical question of law. Noting that HRS § 667-5 did not specify what form of deed should be advertised, the district court was “particularly concerned that it could create a host of problems if it were to rule, without further detail, that a quitclaim deed or an advertisement promising only a quitclaim deed violated a court-created duty.” However, the district court’s ruling need not be categorical, and we view the allegations in the light most favorable to Plaintiffs. Hungate, 391 P.3d at 17–18. The facts alleged show that Wells Fargo only advertised quitclaim deeds in *476 its foreclosure sale notices, but provided a limited warranty deed in many instances. Advertising a warranty deed would enhance the value of the property being sold, and the complaint adequately alleged that Wells Fargo’s failure to do so for the foreclosures at issue was an unfair practice. Whether that is so, or whether, instead, the practice was reasonable, is a question of fact to be addressed on remand.
 
[4]A jury could also find that Wells Fargo’s practice of postponing foreclosure sales without publishing notice was unfair. Plaintiffs allege that Wells Fargo’s postponement of the Lelis auction by announcement constituted a breach of a term in the Lelis mortgage providing that “Lender shall publish a notice of sale and shall sell the property at the time and place and under the terms specified in the notice of sale.” The Hawaii Supreme Court recently considered a mortgage with an identical term in its power of sale clause and held that, although HRS § 667-5 allowed for postponement by public announcement, if the power of sale clause requires more than does the statute, the mortgagee must follow the power of sale clause. Hungate, 391 P.3d at 11. The Court held that because the power of sale clause can be reasonably interpreted as requiring that a postponement must be published in order for the postponed sale to be made “at the time and place and under the terms specified in the notice of sale,” and because ambiguities in a contract are construed against the drafter, the mortgagee was required to publish a new notice of sale to postpone a sale. Id. Thus, given that the Lelis mortgage contained the identical mortgage provision, Plaintiffs sufficiently alleged that Wells Fargo’s practice of postponement by public announcement was unfair because it violated the terms of the parties’ contract.
 
Additionally, a jury could find that postponement by public announcement violated Wells Fargo’s common law “duty to use fair and reasonable means to conduct the foreclosure sale in a manner that is conducive to obtaining the best price under the circumstances.” Id. at 16. Postponement may negatively impact the sale price when interested bidders would have attended on the noticed sale date but cannot or do not attend the postponed sale. See, e.g., Albice v. Premier Mortg. Servs. of Wash., Inc., 174 Wash.2d 560, 276 P.3d 1277, 1285 (2012) (holding that numerous continuances postponing a sale led to a lower price). Thus, Plaintiffs sufficiently alleged that Wells Fargo’s practices of advertising only quitclaim deeds and postponing by public announcement were unfair.
 
III. In addition to sufficiently alleging that a defendant’s conduct was unfair or deceptive within the meaning of HRS § 480-2, a plaintiff must “allege sufficient facts to show he was injured.” Hungate, 391 P.3d at 19. The statute “does not define injury or damages, but Hawaii courts have not set a high bar for proving injury.” Id. (internal quotation marks omitted).
 
[5]Wells Fargo argues that the pleading was not specific enough because the heightened fraud pleading standard applies. Wells Fargo relies on Baker v. Castle & Cooke Homes Hawaii, Inc., No. 11-00616 SOM-RLP, 2012 WL 1454967, at *17 (D. Haw. Apr. 25, 2012), which held that “[b]ecause section 480–2 is based on fraudulent acts, claims brought under that chapter are subject to the heightened pleading requirements under Rule 9(b) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.” However, Baker concerned a fraudulent practice rather than an unfair one, and did not note that the two prongs are treated separately under Hawaii law. Id.; see State by Bronster, 919 P.2d at 313. No heightened pleading standard applies in this case, where *477 the allegations are sufficient under the “unfair” prong. See Vess v. Ciba-Geigy Corp. USA, 317 F.3d 1097, 1104–05 (9th Cir. 2003).
 
To state an HRS § 480-2 claim that is not based on a fraudulent practice, a plaintiff “need only allege that he has, as a direct and proximate result of [the defendant’s] violation of section 480-2, sustained special and general damages [sufficient] to withstand a motion to dismiss.” Hungate, 391 P.3d at 19 (internal quotation marks and alterations omitted).
 
For the foregoing reasons, we REVERSE the district court’s order granting Wells Fargo’s motion to dismiss and REMAND for proceedings consistent with this memorandum.
 
All Citations
688 Fed.Appx. 472
Footnotes

*

This disposition is not appropriate for publication and is not precedent except as provided by Ninth Circuit Rule 36-3.

1

Because Plaintiffs sufficiently alleged that Wells Fargo’s practices were unfair, we decline to address whether Plaintiffs sufficiently alleged that Wells Fargo’s practices were deceptive.


End of Document

© 2017 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.


