

 


Shulman v. Amazon.com.kydc, Inc.
United States Court of Appeals, Sixth Circuit. | January 11, 2017 | Not Reported in F.3d | 2017 WL 5135522

Document Details

Outline
Attorneys and Law Firms
Opinion
All Citations

standard Citation:

Shulman v. Amazon.com.kydc, Inc., No. 15-6211, 2017 WL 5135522 (6th Cir. Jan. 11, 2017)

All Citations:

Not Reported in F.3d, 2017 WL 5135522

Search Details

Search Query:

adv: NAME(”amazon.com”)

Jurisdiction:

Kentucky

Delivery Details

Date:

November 18, 2017 at 2:26 AM

Delivered By:

Vincent Sheu

Client ID:

SHEU VINCENT




2017 WL 5135522
Only the Westlaw citation is currently available.
United States Court of Appeals,
Sixth Circuit.
Julian A. SHULMAN, on behalf of himself and others similarly situated, Plaintiff–Appellant,
v.
AMAZON.COM.KYDC, INC.; Amazon.com, Inc.; John Does, 1–25, unknown officers, employees, affiliated corporations or officers, employees of Amazon.Com, Inc. and its various subsidiary corporations, Defendants–Appellees.
No. 15–6211
|
FILED January 11, 2017
ON APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY
Attorneys and Law Firms
Julian Shulman, London, KY, pro se.
Susan C. Sears, J. Andrew Inman, Littler Mendelson PSC, Lexington, KY, for Defendants–Appellees.
Before: KEITH, SUTTON, and DONALD, Circuit Judges.


ORDER
*1 Julian A. Shulman, a Kentucky resident proceeding pro se, appeals the district court’s judgment granting summary judgment to Amazon.com, Inc. (“Amazon”) and Amazon.com.kydc, Inc. (“Amazon KY”) in his action alleging disability discrimination and breach of contract. This case has been referred to a panel of the court that, upon examination, unanimously agrees that oral argument is not needed. See Fed. R. App. P. 34(a).
 
Beginning in February 2008, Shulman worked as a warehouse associate at Amazon KY’s fulfillment center in Lexington, Kentucky. Between October 2008 and February 2011, Shulman received several verbal and written warnings regarding his failure to meet productivity expectations and, on February 14, 2011, he received a final written warning. In March 2011, Shulman submitted an accommodation request to Amazon KY, reporting that he suffered from arthritis in his feet that restricted his ability to stand, walk, climb stairs, and climb ladders by fifty percent. Finding that it could not approve Shulman to return to work safely, Amazon KY placed him on medical leave for fifty-six days. Shulman then submitted a second accommodation request, reporting that he suffered from chronic foot arthritis that restricted his ability to walk by an additional twenty-five percent. Shulman’s podiatrist recommended that Amazon KY accommodate Shulman by requiring him to stand or walk no more than five hours per day. In May 2011, Amazon KY permitted Shulman to return to work under a reduced work schedule of no more than five hours per day. After Shulman returned to work, he continued to fail to meet productivity expectations. Shulman received two final disciplinary coaches on May 23 and May 29, 2011, and, on July 13, 2011, Amazon KY terminated his employment.
 
In December 2012, Shulman filed a complaint, on his own behalf and on behalf of others similarly situated, against Amazon; Amazon KY; Liberty Mutual Group, Inc. (“Liberty Mutual”); and “John Does, 1–25, unknown officers, employees, affiliated corporations or officers, employees of Amazon.Com, INC. and[/]or its various subsidiary corporations.” R. 1–1 at 1. Against Amazon and Amazon KY, Shulman alleged that his employment was terminated in violation of the Americans with Disabilities Act (“ADA”), see 42 U.S.C. § 12102; the Kentucky Civil Rights Act (“KCRA”); and an implied contract of continued employment. Against Liberty Mutual, Shulman alleged that he was denied disability benefits in violation of the Employment Retirement Income Security Act, see 29 U.S.C. § 1001.
 
Although Shulman initially filed his complaint in the Circuit Court of Fayette County, Kentucky, Amazon and Amazon KY removed the case to the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Kentucky. In July 2013, the district court dismissed Liberty Mutual from Shulman’s action without prejudice, based on Shulman’s failure to effect timely service of process. The magistrate judge later awarded sanctions in the amount of $2,681.75 to Amazon and Amazon KY based on discovery violations committed by Shulman. Shulman filed objections to the magistrate judge’s sanctions order, which the district court denied. In November 2014, Amazon and Amazon KY moved for summary judgment. On April 20, 2015, the district court granted Amazon and Amazon KY’s motion and dismissed Shulman’s action. On May 18, 2015, Shulman filed a motion for relief from the district court’s judgment, which the district court denied on September 30, 2015. This timely appeal followed.1
 
*2 On appeal, Shulman argues that the district court erred in: (1) granting summary judgment on his disability-discrimination claim; (2) denying him leave to amend his complaint to raise additional claims and finding that his complaint failed to raise these additional claims; (3) upholding the magistrate judge’s sanctions order; and (4) declining to reopen discovery. Shulman also challenges the district court’s dismissal of several defendants from his action and asks that this court explain “the correct procedure to obtain justice for other Amazon employees similarly situated to Shulman at the time of his termination from employment at Amazon.com.” Appellant Br., at 6.
 
In his first claim, Shulman argues that the district court erred in granting summary judgment on his disability-discrimination claim. Specifically, Shulman argues that he created a genuine dispute of material fact as to whether the defendants’ stated reason for his termination was a pretext for discrimination. We review a district court’s grant of summary judgment de novo. Chapman v. United Auto Workers Local 1005, 670 F.3d 677, 680 (6th Cir. 2012) (en banc). A district court “shall grant summary judgment if the movant shows that there is no genuine dispute as to any material fact and the movant is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” Fed. R. Civ. P. 56(a). “A fact is material if it ‘might affect the outcome of the suit under the governing law[,]’ and a dispute about a material fact is genuine ‘if the evidence is such that a reasonable jury could return a verdict for the nonmoving party.’ ” McKay v. Federspiel, 823 F.3d 862, 866 (6th Cir. 2016) (quoting Anderson v. Liberty Lobby, Inc., 477 U.S. 242, 248 (1986)). “At the summary judgment stage, we consider the evidence in the light most favorable to the non-moving party and draw all reasonable inferences in that party’s favor.” Id.
 
Shulman brought his disability-discrimination claim under the ADA and the KCRA. Because the language of the KCRA mirrors that of the ADA, we review Shulman’s disability-discrimination claim under the ADA framework. See Brohm v. JH Props., Inc., 149 F.3d 517, 520 (6th Cir. 1998). Under the ADA, an employer cannot discriminate against a qualified individual on the basis of disability in regard to the terms, conditions, privileges, or termination of employment. 42 U.S.C. § 12112(a). To establish a prima facie case of employment discrimination through indirect evidence under the ADA, a plaintiff must show that: (1) he is disabled; (2) he is otherwise qualified for the position, with or without reasonable accommodation; (3) he suffered an adverse employment decision; (4) the employer knew or had reason to know of his disability; and (5) the position remained open while the employer sought other applicants or the disabled individual was replaced. Whitfield v. Tennessee, 639 F.3d 253, 258–59 (6th Cir. 2011). Once a plaintiff establishes a prima facie case, the burden shifts to the defendant to articulate a legitimate, non-discriminatory reason for the adverse employment action. McDonell Douglas Corp. v. Green, 411 U.S. 792, 802–04 (1973). If the defendant does so, the burden shifts back to the plaintiff to prove that the defendant’s stated reason is a pretext for discrimination. Id. The defendants do not dispute that Shulman established a prima facie case of employment discrimination, and Shulman does not dispute that the defendants presented a legitimate, non-discriminatory reason for his termination. Thus, the only issue is whether Shulman created a genuine dispute of material fact as to whether the defendants’ stated reason—i.e., his failure to meet productivity expectations—was a pretext for discrimination.
 
*3 “A plaintiff will usually demonstrate pretext by showing that the employer’s stated reason for the adverse employment action either (1) has no basis in fact, (2) was not the actual reason, or (3) is insufficient to explain the employer’s action.” White v. Baxter Healthcare Corp., 533 F.3d 381, 393 (6th Cir. 2008). Shulman argues that he demonstrated pretext in several ways. First, he asserts that “[o]ne of the two coaches isn’t even for productivity, but for a quality error ... and the other ... [was] unsigned and unseen by [Shulman].” Appellant Br., at 9. But Shulman conceded during his deposition that he regularly failed to meet productivity expectations, and has identified no evidence to the contrary. Second, Shulman argues that a July 13, 2011 email from his manager to human resources containing his performance breakdown demonstrates that human resources “decided to fire [Shulman] with no request by [Shulman’s manager] and solicited an email from him after having done so in order to find, after the fact, some performance event that, at first blush, might motivate termination.” Id. at 10. Similarly, Shulman claims that his termination request was created after his termination and therefore serves as evidence of pretext because the request was not signed, lacked a photograph of Shulman, and was not provided to Shulman before he received his termination letter. These speculations of malfeasance, for which Shulman fails to identify any meaningful support in the record, are insufficient to create a genuine dispute of material fact as to pretext.
 
Finally, Shulman argues that he demonstrated pretext by establishing that Amazon KY deviated from its disciplinary policy in terminating him. Specifically, deposition testimony established that an Amazon KY employee is subject to termination for lack of productivity if the employee fails to meet productivity expectations within ninety days of receiving a final written warning. Shulman received his final written warning on February 14, 2011. Shulman argues that this warning therefore expired on May 14, 2011, well before the May 23 and May 29, 2011 final coaches that he received. As the district court concluded, the evidence on this point is inconclusive. But because Shulman presented no evidence to rebut Amazon KY’s evidence, which indicated that the final written warning remained active when Shulman received his final coaches because his leave of absence tolled the ninety-day period, the district court properly determined that Shulman failed to create a genuine dispute of material fact as to pretext.
 
In his second claim, Shulman argues that the district court erred “in not allowing Shulman either to amend his complaint to include or finding that it alleged sufficient facts to support claims of Family and Medical Leave Act [ ](FMLA) retaliation and interference as well as failure to accommodate and prohibited medical inquiry claims under the Americans with Disabilities Act as Amended[ ](ADAAA).” Id. at 5. However, Shulman never filed a motion to amend his complaint to add these claims. Where a plaintiff fails to file a motion to amend, it is impossible for a district court to determine if leave to amend should be granted. Spadafore v. Gardner, 330 F.3d 849, 853 (6th Cir. 2003). And the district court was understandably reluctant to infer unpled causes of action from the facts presented in Shulman’s complaint. See id. Accordingly, this claim is without merit.
 
In his third claim, Shulman argues that the district court erred in overruling his objections to the magistrate judge’s order granting the defendants’ motion for financial sanctions. Courts have inherent authority to impose sanctions on a party for bad faith conduct during the course of litigation, Chambers v. NASCO, Inc., 501 U.S. 32, 43–50 (1991), and we review a decision to grant sanctions only for an abuse of discretion, id. at 55. The magistrate judge ordered Shulman to pay $2,681.75 based on his failure to make disclosures as ordered and his failure to appear at several scheduled conferences. Shulman argues, as he did below, that his non-compliance should be excused because the district court’s orders were mailed to the wrong physical address and the emailed copies—which the magistrate judge ordered the clerk’s office and defense to send in an attempt to accommodate Shulman’s pro se status and change of physical address—were not received. The record indicates that there was confusion over Shulman’s physical mailing address. However, Shulman has not offered any explanation for his failure to receive the copies of the district court’s orders that were emailed to him. Accordingly, he has failed to demonstrate that the district court abused its discretion in overruling his objections to the magistrate judge’s order.
 
*4 In his fourth claim, Shulman asserts that, because he was not served with copies of the district court’s orders, the district court should have reopened discovery. As discussed above, Shulman does not explain his failure to receive the copies of the district court’s orders that were emailed to him. Accordingly, this claim is without merit.
 
Shulman also lists, in his statement of the issues, that he wishes to challenge the district court’s dismissal of “all Defendants with the exception of Amazon.com KYDC LLC (Amazon KY).” Appellant Br., at 6. But Shulman fails to make any further mention of this issue in his appellate brief. Federal Rule of Appellate Procedure 28(a) requires the appellant’s brief to include “a statement of the issues presented for review” and an “argument” on each issue presented. The failure to present an argument in an appellate brief waives appellate review. Buziashvili v. Inman, 106 F.3d 709, 719 (6th Cir. 1997). Because Shulman fails to present any argument regarding the dismissal of these parties from his lawsuit, he has waived review of this claim. See id.
 
Finally, because we will not issue advisory opinions, we deny Shulman’s request for guidance on obtaining class-action relief. See Johnson v. Turner, 125 F.3d 324, 336–37 (6th Cir. 1997).
 
For these reasons, we AFFIRM the district court’s judgment.
 
All Citations
Not Reported in F.3d, 2017 WL 5135522
Footnotes

1

In his notice of appeal, Shulman appeals both the underlying 2014 judgment dismissing his action and the 2015 order denying his motion for relief from judgment. The district court construed Shulman’s motion for relief from judgment as brought under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 60. However, because Shulman filed his motion within twenty-eight days of the underlying judgment, it should have been construed as a motion brought under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 59 to alter or amend the judgment. See Cockrel v. Shelby Cty. Sch. Dist., 270 F.3d 1036, 1047–48 (6th Cir. 2001) (addressing prior ten-day period for Rule 59(e)). “[A]s a general matter, the appeal from the denial of a Rule 59(e) motion is treated as an appeal from the underlying judgment itself.” GenCorp, Inc. v. Am. Int’l Underwriters, 178 F.3d 804, 833 (6th Cir. 1999).


End of Document

© 2017 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.


