

 


Exxon Mobil Corp. v. New West Petroleum, LP
United States Court of Appeals, Ninth Circuit. | March 4, 2010 | 369 Fed.Appx. 805 | 2010 WL 750033

Document Details

Outline
Synopsis
West Headnotes
Attorneys and Law Firms
Opinion
All Citations

standard Citation:

Exxon Mobil Corp. v. New W. Petroleum, LP, 369 F. App’x 805 (9th Cir. 2010)

All Citations:

369 Fed.Appx. 805, 2010 WL 750033

Search Details

Search Query:

adv: NAME(”exxon mobil”)

Jurisdiction:

California

Delivery Details

Date:

November 18, 2017 at 2:39 AM

Delivered By:

Vincent Sheu

Client ID:

SHEU VINCENT




369 Fed.Appx. 805
This case was not selected for publication in the Federal Reporter.
Not for Publication in West’s Federal Reporter See Fed. Rule of Appellate Procedure 32.1 generally governing citation of judicial decisions issued on or after Jan. 1, 2007. See also Ninth Circuit Rule 36-3. (Find CTA9 Rule 36-3)
United States Court of Appeals,
Ninth Circuit.
EXXON MOBIL CORPORATION, a New Jersey corporation, Plaintiff-cross-defendant-Appellant,
v.
NEW WEST PETROLEUM, LP, a California limited partnership; et al., Defendants-cross-claimants-Appellees,
and
Sartaj Singh Bains, Third-party-defendant-counter-claimant-Appellee.
No. 08-17651.
|
Argued and Submitted Feb. 8, 2010.
|
Filed March 4, 2010.
Synopsis
Background: Vendor of retail gasoline service station brought action against purchaser, seeking indemnity for remediation and alleging breach of purchase agreement, breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealing, and violations of California law. Purchaser counterclaimed seeking indemnification and alleging breach of contract, breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, and violations of California law, and cross-claimed against lessee for indemnification. Following jury trial that ended in mistrial, parties stipulated to adjudication by court based on record and post-trial briefing. The United States District Court for the Eastern District of California, William B. Shubb, J., 566 F.Supp.2d 1148, entered order directing that neither of the parties take anything on its respective claims, counterclaims, and crossclaims. Vendor appealed.
 
Holdings: The Court of Appeals held that:
 
[1] the district court correctly determined that, under the parties’ purchase and sale agreement, vendor agreed to take responsibility for the costs of remediating the contamination at issue, provided that it was caused by vendor’s operations;
 
[2] the district court did not clearly err in finding that vendor failed to prove, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the reported increases in contamination were not caused by vendor’s operations prior to the closing date; and
 
[3] the district court did not abuse its discretion in refusing to grant vendor declaratory judgment.
 
Affirmed.
 


West Headnotes (3)


[1]

Vendor and PurchaserInjuries to property


400Vendor and Purchaser
400VRights and Liabilities of Parties
400V(A)As to Each Other
400k203Injuries to property


District court correctly determined that, under the parties’ purchase and sale agreement, vendor of retail gasoline service station agreed to take responsibility for costs of remediating the contamination at issue, provided that it was caused by vendor’s operations; agreement generally made vendor responsible for contamination caused by its operations, section of agreement specified that, if applicable governmental authority required further assessments and remediation of petroleum hydrocarbons, as it did in this case, and such petroleum hydrocarbons were caused by vendor’s operations, then baseline condition of property would be modified based on results of such assessments and vendor would be responsible for addressing modified baseline condition, and, contrary to vendor’s argument, purchaser’s agreement to “hold harmless” vendor for specified issues did not allow vendor to sue purchaser for indemnity for contamination caused by vendor’s prior operations.
Cases that cite this headnote



[2]

Vendor and PurchaserInjuries to property


400Vendor and Purchaser
400VRights and Liabilities of Parties
400V(A)As to Each Other
400k203Injuries to property


Finding that vendor of retail gasoline service station failed to prove, by a preponderance of the evidence, that reported increases in contamination on the subject property were not caused by vendor’s operations prior to the closing date, such that vendor was responsible for the contamination at issue under the parties’ purchase and sale agreement, was supported by evidence that the methyl tertiary butyl ether (MTBE) concentrations increased while the station was closed for upgrades, that the subsequent lessees of the property took substantial measures to prevent and detect releases, and that no post-closing date MTBE release of the magnitude necessary to produce the reported results was detected.
Cases that cite this headnote



[3]

Declaratory JudgmentAdequacy of other remedy


118ADeclaratory Judgment
118AINature and Grounds in General
118AI(C)Other Remedies
118Ak42Adequacy of other remedy


In action brought by vendor of retail gasoline service station against purchaser, seeking indemnity for remediation and alleging breach of purchase agreement, breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealing, and violations of California law, the district court did not abuse its discretion in refusing to grant vendor declaratory judgment; the district court was not required to entertain the declaratory judgment claim, and the court’s conclusion that its decision on the breach of contract claim resolved the declaratory relief claim was consonant with the Court of Appeals’ direction that district courts may refuse to exercise their discretion where the declaratory action will not serve a useful purpose in clarifying the legal relations at issue.
Cases that cite this headnote



Attorneys and Law Firms
*807 Jay-Allen Eisen, Jay-Allen Eisen Law Corp, Sacramento, CA, Spencer Malysiak, Douglas E. Watts, Erik P. Larson, Spencer T. Malysiak Law Corp., Folsom, CA, for Defendants-cross-claimants-Appellees.
Jennifer M. Kennedy, Esquire, Michael John Miguel, Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LLP, Los Angeles, CA, for Third-party-defendant-counter-claimant-Appellee.
Appeal from the United States District Court for the Eastern District of California, William B. Shubb, District Judge, Presiding. D.C. No. 2:03-cv-02222-WBS-EFB.
Before: GOODWIN, BERZON and IKUTA, Circuit Judges.


MEMORANDUM*
**1 [1] The Purchase & Sale Agreement generally makes Exxon Mobil Corporation (“ExxonMobil”) responsible for contamination caused by ExxonMobil’s operations. See generally Purchase & Sale Agreement Sections 12, 19. Relevant here, Section 11(b) of the Purchase & Sale Agreement provides that if the applicable governmental authority requires further assessments and remediation of petroleum hydrocarbons, as it did in this case, and such petroleum hydrocarbons were caused by ExxonMobil’s operations, then (1) the Baseline Condition of the Property is modified based on the results of such assessments; and (2) ExxonMobil is responsible for addressing the modified Baseline Condition pursuant to Section 12. Contrary to ExxonMobil’s argument, New West’s agreement in Section 18 of the Agreement to “hold harmless” ExxonMobil for specified issues does not allow ExxonMobil to sue New West for indemnity for contamination caused by ExxonMobil’s prior operations. See Queen Villas Homeowners Ass’n v. TCB Prop. Mgmt., 149 Cal.App.4th 1, 56 Cal.Rptr.3d 528, 534 (2007). Accordingly, the district court correctly determined that under the Purchase & Sale Agreement, ExxonMobil agreed to take responsibility for the costs of remediating the contamination at issue, provided that it was caused by ExxonMobil’s operations.
 
[2] The district court did not clearly err in finding that ExxonMobil failed to prove, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the reported increases in contamination were not caused by ExxonMobil’s operations prior to the Closing Date. This finding was supported by evidence that the MtBE concentrations increased while the Northgate station was closed for upgrades, that the subsequent lessees of the Northgate Property took substantial measures to prevent and detect releases, and that no post-Closing Date MtBE release of the magnitude necessary to produce the reported results was detected. While ExxonMobil presented evidence to the contrary, the district court’s finding is “plausible in light of the record viewed in its entirety.” Marlyn Nutraceuticals, Inc. v. Mucos Pharma GmbH & Co., 571 F.3d 873, 878 (9th Cir.2009) (quotation marks omitted). In light of this factual finding, the district court correctly concluded that ExxonMobil was responsible for the contamination at issue under the Purchase & *808 Sale Agreement. Because this conclusion was not clearly erroneous, the district court’s decision on damages was also not clear error.
 
[3] Finally, the district court did not abuse its discretion in refusing to grant ExxonMobil declaratory judgment. See Principal Life Ins. Co. v. Robinson, 394 F.3d 665, 669 (9th Cir.2005). The district court was not required to entertain the declaratory judgment claim, see Gov’t Employees Ins. Co. v. Dizol, 133 F.3d 1220, 1223 (9th Cir.1998) (en banc), and the court’s conclusion that its decision on the breach of contract claim resolved the declaratory relief claim is consonant with our direction that district courts may refuse to exercise their discretion where the declaratory action will not “serve a useful purpose in clarifying the legal relations at issue,” id. at 1225 n. 5.
 
**2 AFFIRMED.
 
All Citations
369 Fed.Appx. 805, 2010 WL 750033
Footnotes

*

This disposition is not appropriate for publication and is not precedent except as provided by 9th Cir. R. 36-3.


End of Document

© 2017 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.


