

 


In re Exxon Valdez
United States Court of Appeals, Ninth Circuit. | July 24, 2009 | 338 Fed.Appx. 708 | 2009 WL 2197038

Document Details

Outline
Synopsis
West Headnotes
Attorneys and Law Firms
Opinion
All Citations

standard Citation:

In re Exxon Valdez, 338 F. App’x 708 (9th Cir. 2009)

All Citations:

338 Fed.Appx. 708, 2009 WL 2197038

Search Details

Search Query:

adv: NAME(”exxon mobil”)

Jurisdiction:

Alaska

Delivery Details

Date:

November 18, 2017 at 2:39 AM

Delivered By:

Vincent Sheu

Client ID:

SHEU VINCENT




338 Fed.Appx. 708
This case was not selected for publication in the Federal Reporter.
Not for Publication in West’s Federal Reporter See Fed. Rule of Appellate Procedure 32.1 generally governing citation of judicial decisions issued on or after Jan. 1, 2007. See also Ninth Circuit Rule 36-3. (Find CTA9 Rule 36-3)
United States Court of Appeals,
Ninth Circuit.
In re: EXXON VALDEZ,
Polar Equipment Inc., dba Cook Inlet Processing, Inc., Plaintiff-Appellant,
Richard Newby; Mike Lopez; Theodore Jewell; Larry Powers; Eagle Fisheries, L.P.A.; Estate of Seward Shea and Steve Copeland; Sea Hawk Seafoods, Inc.; Plaintiffs’ Liaison Counsel, Co-Lead Counsel or Lead Trial Counsel; Other Plaintiffs in Consolidated Cases, Plaintiffs-Appellees,
and
Nautilus Marine Enterprises, Inc., Plaintiff-Appellant,
v.
Exxon Mobil Corp.; Exxon Shipping Co., Defendants-Appellees.
In re: Exxon Valdez,
Polar Equipment Inc., dba Cook Inlet Processing, Inc., Plaintiff-Appellant,
and
Nautilus Marine Enterprises, Inc., Plaintiff-Appellant,
Richard Newby; Mike Lopez; Theodore Jewell; Larry Powers; Eagle Fisheries, L.P.A.; Estate of Seward Shea and Steve Copeland; Sea Hawk Seafoods, Inc.; Plaintiffs’ Liaison Counsel, Co-Lead Counsel or Lead Trial Counsel; Other Plaintiffs in Consolidated Cases, Plaintiffs-Appellees,
v.
Exxon Mobil Corp.; Exxon Shipping Co., Defendants-Appellees.
Nos. 07-35794, 07-35796.
|
Argued and Submitted June 24, 2009.
|
Filed July 24, 2009.
Synopsis
Background: In class action for damages sustained as result of oil spill on navigable waters, two former class members split off from the class to pursue their claims against defendant individually. The United States District Court for the District of Alaska, H. Russel Holland, J., found that former class members were not entitled to share in punitive damages collected by the class. Former class members appealed.
 
Holding: The Court of Appeals held that former class members were bound by terms of agreement in which they released their rights to share in any punitive damages recovery awarded to the class.
 
Affirmed.
 


West Headnotes (1)


[1]

ContractsLegal remedies and proceedings


95Contracts
95IIConstruction and Operation
95II(C)Subject-Matter
95k206Legal remedies and proceedings


Two former class members who split off from rest of the class in action for damages sustained as result of oil spill on navigable waters, to pursue their claims against defendant individually, were bound by terms of agreement with the class in which they released their rights to share in any punitive damages recovery awarded to the class, although they settled their individual claims against defendant, and settlement, to which the class was not a party, purported to reassign and restore former class members’ rights to share in the class recovery of punitive damages.
Cases that cite this headnote



Attorneys and Law Firms
*709 Thomas David Copley, Keller Rohrback, LLP, Seattle, WA, David W. Oesting, Esquire, Davis Wright Tremaine, LLP, Anchorage, AK, Darcy Shearer, Davis Wright Tremaine, LLP, Seattle, WA, Phillip Paul Weidner, Esquire, Anna Cristina Weidner-Tafs, Esquire, Phillip Paul Weidner & Associates, APC, Anchorage, AK, Bruce Eric Gagnon, Esquire, Atkinson Conway & Gagnon, Anchorage, AK, Edward Paul Weigelt, Jr., Senior Counsel, Law Offices of Edward P. Weigelt, Jr., Lynnwood, WA, for Plaintiff-Appellant.
Charles Willard Coe, Esquire, Law Office of Charles W. Coe, Anchorage, AK, Thomas David Copley, David W. Oesting, Esquire, Darcy Shearer, Kevin Sullivan, Sullivan & Thoreson, Seattle, WA, John G. Young, Young Denormandie, PC, Seattle, WA, Lloyd Benton Miller, Sonosky, Chamgers, Sachse, Miller & Munson, Anchorage, AK, for Plaintiffs-Appellees.
John F. Clough, III, Esquire, Douglas J. Serdahely, Esquire, for Defendants-Appellees.
Appeal from the United States District Court for the District of Alaska, *710 H. Russel Holland, District Judge, Presiding. D.C. No. CV-89-00095-HRH.
Before: SCHROEDER, KLEINFELD, and THOMAS, Circuit Judges.


MEMORANDUM*
**1 The appellants, Polar Equipment and Nautilus Marine, were two of the original plaintiffs in this litigation, but they split off from the rest of the plaintiffs’ class in 2003 to pursue their claims against Exxon individually. As part of their 2003 agreement with the plaintiffs’ class, appellants agreed to release their rights to share in any punitive damages recovery “awarded to and collected by” the class. Appellants now contend that the 2003 agreement should not be given effect because their 2006 settlement with Exxon, to which the plaintiffs’ class was not a party, said that Exxon “reassigned and restored” Polar Equipment’s and Nautilus Marine’s rights to share in the class recovery of punitive damages.
 
In the 2003 agreement with the plaintiffs’ class, however, Polar Equipment and Nautilus Marine agreed to be “bound by the terms and conditions of Order No. 351 and Order No. 352 for all purposes,” and they agreed to “[w]aive, relinquish and discharge any right of any nature whatsoever which either of them may have to participate in any distribution of or receive any share of any recoveries by Plaintiffs pursuant to either the Amended Plan of Allocation approved ... [in] Order No. 351, or the Amended Plan of Distribution of Allocations to the Processor Claim Category approved by the Court in Order No. 352.”
 
In return for giving up their rights to share in any punitive damages recovery by the plaintiffs’ class, these appellants were allowed to pursue their claims against Exxon. They settled those claims in 2006 for more than eight million dollars. The appellants do not have to share any of that recovery with the plaintiffs’ class but, in return, they remain bound by the terms of the 2003 agreement that they will not share in the punitive damages collected by the rest of the plaintiffs. The appellants’ 2006 settlement with Exxon did not affect the validity of the appellants’ 2003 settlement with the plaintiffs’ class. See Leroy Land Dev. v. Tahoe Reg’l Planning Agency, 939 F.2d 696, 698-99 (9th Cir.1991).
 
The district court correctly so held.
 
AFFIRMED.
 
All Citations
338 Fed.Appx. 708, 2009 WL 2197038
Footnotes

*

This disposition is not appropriate for publication and is not precedent except as provided by 9th Cir. R. 36-3.


End of Document

© 2017 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.


