

 


Moore v. Exxon Mobil Oil Corp.
United States Court of Appeals, Fifth Circuit. | September 1, 2004 | 108 Fed.Appx. 177 | 2004 WL 1941217

Document Details

Outline
Synopsis
West Headnotes
Attorneys and Law Firms
Opinion
All Citations

standard Citation:

Moore v. Exxon Mobil Oil Corp., 108 F. App’x 177 (5th Cir. 2004)

All Citations:

108 Fed.Appx. 177, 2004 WL 1941217

Search Details

Search Query:

adv: NAME(”exxon mobil”)

Jurisdiction:

Texas

Delivery Details

Date:

November 18, 2017 at 2:39 AM

Delivered By:

Vincent Sheu

Client ID:

SHEU VINCENT




108 Fed.Appx. 177
This case was not selected for publication in the Federal Reporter.
Not for Publication in West’s Federal Reporter.
See Fed. Rule of Appellate Procedure 32.1 generally governing citation of judicial decisions issued on or after Jan. 1, 2007. See also Fifth Circuit Rules 28.7, 47.5.3, 47.5.4. (Find CTA5 Rule 28 and Find CTA5 Rule 47)
United States Court of Appeals,
Fifth Circuit.
Luanne MOORE, Plaintiff–Appellant,
v.
EXXON MOBIL OIL CORPORATION, a New Jersey Corporation, f/k/a Mobil Oil Corporation, Defendant–Appellee.
No. 04–40287
|
Summary Calendar.
|
Decided Sept. 1, 2004.
Synopsis
Background: After summary judgment was granted to employer on former employee’s claims of gender discrimination, sexual harassment, and intentional infliction of emotional distress, employee filed motion for relief from judgment, alleging judge had a conflict of interest. The United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, denied motion and granted employer’s motion for sanctions in part. Employee appealed.
 
Holdings: On employee’s motion to supplement the record on appeal, and employer’s motion for damages and costs, the Court of Appeals held that:
 
[1] employee’s allegations that judge had a conflict of interest lacked any factual basis or legal support, and
 
[2] employee’s appeal was frivolous and warranted monetary sanctions in an amount representing employer’s attorney fees to defend appeal.
 
Affirmed; employee’s motion to supplement record granted; employer’s motion for damages and costs granted.
 


West Headnotes (2)


[1]

Federal Civil ProcedureGrounds and Factors
Federal Civil ProcedureFurther evidence or argument


170AFederal Civil Procedure
170AXVIIJudgment
170AXVII(G)Relief from Judgment
170Ak2651Grounds and Factors
170Ak2651.1In general
170AFederal Civil Procedure
170AXVIIJudgment
170AXVII(G)Relief from Judgment
170Ak2651Grounds and Factors
170Ak2655Further evidence or argument


Employee’s allegations, in support of her motion for relief from judgment, that judge who granted summary judgment to employer on her claims of gender discrimination, sexual harassment, and intentional infliction of emotional distress had a conflict of interest lacked any factual basis or legal support; employee’s allegations against judge had been dismissed after independent review by an Appellate Review Panel of the Judicial Council of Court of Appeals and by the State Bar of Texas, and oil, gas and mineral lease between members of judge’s family and company wholly unrelated to any party in action was not “new evidence” supporting employee’s assertions. Fed.Rules Civ.Proc.Rule 60(b), 28 U.S.C.A.
Cases that cite this headnote



[2]

Federal Civil ProcedureFrivolousness;  particular cases
Federal Civil ProcedureType and amount of sanction


170AFederal Civil Procedure
170AXXSanctions
170AXX(F)On Appeal
170Ak2837Grounds
170Ak2840Frivolousness;  particular cases
170AFederal Civil Procedure
170AXXSanctions
170AXX(F)On Appeal
170Ak2847Type and amount of sanction


Former employee’s appeal from denial of her motion for relief from judgment, which alleged judge had a conflict of interest, was frivolous and warranted monetary sanctions in an amount representing employer’s attorney fees to defend appeal. F.R.A.P.Rule 38, 28 U.S.C.A.
Cases that cite this headnote



Attorneys and Law Firms
*178 Luanne Moore, Port Arthur, TX, pro se.
Reid Grayson Gettys, Houston, TX, for Defendant–Appellee.
Appeal from the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, Beaumont Division, USDC No. 1:00–CV–839.
Before DAVIS, SMITH and DENNIS, Circuit Judges.
Opinion
PER CURIAM:*

**1 Plaintiff Luanne Moore appeals the denial of her Motion for Relief from Judgment which granted Defendant Exxon Mobil Corporation’s Motion for Summary Judgment in her employment action against the defendant. We Affirm.
 

I.
A summary review of the procedural history of this case demonstrates the basis for our judgment in this case. On September 30, 2002, the district court granted Exxon Mobil’s Motion for Summary Judgment and dismissed Moore’s gender discrimination suit with prejudice. The district court concluded that Moore had not come forward with sufficient evidence that the explanation offered by Exxon Mobil for her termination (well documented poor job performance) was a pretext for gender discrimination. Her claim of sexual harassment was dismissed for failure to exhaust administrative remedies. The district court also concluded that the conduct alleged in Moore’s complaint did not rise to the level necessary to support Moore’s claim of intentional infliction of emotional distress. After her petition for rehearing was denied, Moore appealed. This court summarily affirmed the judgment of the district court on May 16, 2003, on the basis of the district court’s opinion. After her petition for rehearing was denied by this court, Moore filed a writ of certiorari with the United Supreme Court. On November 3, 2003, the Supreme Court denied Moore’s writ application.
 
Meanwhile, Moore was also pursuing allegations of judicial misconduct against Judge Heartfield, the district court judge who presided over her case, and his son, an attorney not associated with this case. In August 2003, Moore filed a Complaint of Misconduct against Judge Heartfield with this court. Moore’s complaint questioned whether Judge Heartfield had a financial interest in Exxon Mobil and complained that Judge Heartfield’s son had represented Exxon Mobil in another case. In October 2003, Moore’s judicial misconduct complaint was dismissed for lack of evidence of any actual conflict and because the complaint related directly to the merits of the judge’s decision. At Moore’s request, the dismissal was reviewed by an *179 Appellate Review Panel of the Judicial Council of this circuit and affirmed in December 2003. During this same time period, Moore pursued a complaint against Judge Heartfield with the State Bar of Texas. That grievance was also dismissed.
 
In October 2003, Moore filed a Motion for Relief from Judgment with the district court. The basis for the motion was Moore’s allegation that Judge Heartfield may have had a conflict of interest when he ruled against her. On January 27, 2004, the district court denied Moore’s Petition for Relief from Judgment and granted Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment. Moore challenges that order in this appeal.
 
After the district court’s ruling on Moore’s Motion for Relief from Judgment, Exxon Mobil sought sanctions under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 11 and requested reimbursement of attorneys’ fees and costs expended in defending the baseless motion. The district court adopted the Report and Recommendation of the Magistrate Judge and granted Exxon Mobil’s Motion for Sanctions in part, ordering that plaintiff and her counsel are prohibited from filing any additional papers in this proceeding. Exxon Mobil’s request for fees and costs was denied.
 
**2 Moore, now acting pro se, filed this appeal which again raises allegations of misconduct against Judge Heartfield as affecting his disposition of her case.
 

II.
[1] As demonstrated by the repeated dismissals of Moore’s claims in both her substantive case and her complaint of judicial misconduct against Judge Heartfield, Moore’s Rule 60(b) motion, which rests on the same foundation, is without factual basis or legal support. The district court’s dismissal of Moore’s underlying case was affirmed by this court after de novo review. Also, Moore’s claims of judicial misconduct are totally without merit. They have been dismissed after independent review by an Appellate Review Panel of the Judicial Council of this circuit and by the State Bar of Texas. The Oil, Gas & Mineral Lease between members of the Heartfield family and Union Pacific Resources Company, a company wholly unrelated to any of the parties, (which Moore submits as “new evidence” to support her assertions) does nothing to change the analysis.
 
[2] Based on the above and our review of the remainder of the record, we easily conclude that this appeal is frivolous. The Magistrate’s Report and Recommendation recognized that “[c]ounsel and Plaintiff have made a mockery of [their ethical] obligations by putting forth the wholly unfounded allegations on file in this civil action and in the judicial misconduct proceedings initiated against Judge Heartfield.” As an alternative to monetary sanctions, the district court ordered “that Plaintiff and her counsel are precluded from filing any additional papers in this proceeding.” As Moore persisted in pursuing this matter in the face of this assessment of her case, we are persuaded that monetary sanctions in the amount of $5,453.10 representing Exxon Mobil’s attorney fees to defend this frivolous appeal are warranted as authorized by Rule 38 of the Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure.
 

IV.
Accordingly, we AFFIRM the judgment of the district court, GRANT Moore’s Motion to Supplement the Record on Appeal, GRANT Exxon Mobil’s Motion for Damages and Costs and award Exxon Mobil damages against Moore in the amount of $5,453.10.
 
AFFIRMED.
 
All Citations
108 Fed.Appx. 177, 2004 WL 1941217
Footnotes

*

Pursuant to 5TH CIR. R. 47.5, the Court has determined that this opinion should not be published and is not precedent except under the limited circumstances set forth in 5TH CIR. R. 47.5.4.


End of Document

© 2017 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.


