

 


LeBlanc v. Chevron USA Inc.
United States Court of Appeals, Fifth Circuit. | April 22, 2008 | 275 Fed.Appx. 319 | 2008 WL 1805448

Document Details

Outline
Synopsis
West Headnotes
Attorneys and Law Firms
Opinion
All Citations

standard Citation:

LeBlanc v. Chevron USA Inc., 275 F. App’x 319 (5th Cir. 2008)

All Citations:

275 Fed.Appx. 319, 2008 WL 1805448

Search Details

Search Query:

adv: NAME(”exxon mobil”)

Jurisdiction:

Louisiana

Delivery Details

Date:

November 18, 2017 at 2:39 AM

Delivered By:

Vincent Sheu

Client ID:

SHEU VINCENT




275 Fed.Appx. 319
This case was not selected for publication in the Federal Reporter.
Not for Publication in West’s Federal Reporter.
See Fed. Rule of Appellate Procedure 32.1 generally governing citation of judicial decisions issued on or after Jan. 1, 2007. See also Fifth Circuit Rules 28.7, 47.5.3, 47.5.4. (Find CTA5 Rule 28 and Find CTA5 Rule 47)
United States Court of Appeals,
Fifth Circuit.
Malcolm Louis LeBLANC; Victoria Richaux LeBlanc; Timothy L. LeBlanc; Heidi M. LeBlanc; Plaintiffs–Appellants,
v.
CHEVRON USA INC., formerly known as Gulf Oil Corporation; Exxon Mobil Corporation, formerly known as Exxon Corporation; Mobil Corporation; Murphy Oil USA Inc.; Shell Oil Company; El Paso Energy, EST Company, as Trustee for EPEC Oil Company Liquidating Trust, EPEC Oil Company; Defendants–Appellees.
No. 07–30599.
|
April 22, 2008.
Synopsis
Background: Tanker truck driver brought tort action against manufacturer of products containing high concentrations of benzene, alleging exposure to manufacturer’s products caused him to develop myelofibrosis with myeloid metaplasia. Defendants challenged reliability of driver’s expert. The United States District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana concluded that expert’s testimony was not sufficiently reliable to pass muster under Daubert and its progeny and dismissed suit. Driver appealed.
 
Holding: The Court of Appeals held that remand was warranted for district court to review admissibility.
 
Vacated and remanded.
 


West Headnotes (1)


[1]

Federal CourtsNeed for further evidence, findings, or conclusions


170BFederal Courts
170BXVIICourts of Appeals
170BXVII(L)Determination and Disposition of Cause
170Bk3779Directing New Trial or Other Proceedings Below;  Remand
170Bk3785Need for further evidence, findings, or conclusions
(Formerly 170Bk947)


Remand was warranted in tanker truck driver’s action against manufacturer of products containing high concentrations of benzene for district court to reconsider its ruling on admissibility of driver’s expert’s testimony in light of federal benzene toxicology report released after district court’s determination of admissibility. Fed.Rules Evid.Rule 702, 28 U.S.C.A.
2 Cases that cite this headnote



Attorneys and Law Firms
*319 Lynn Eric Williams, Jr., Metairie, LA, John Maurice Futrell, Lee, Futrell & Perles, New Orleans, LA, for Plaintiffs–Appellants.
Gary A. Bezet, Kean, Miller, Hawthorne, D’Armond, McCowan & Jarman, Baton Rouge, LA, for Defendants–Appellees.
Appeal from the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana, New Orleans, USDC 2:05–CV–5485.
Before DAVIS and SOUTHWICK, Circuit Judges and DRELL, District Judge.*

PER CURIAM:**

I.
**1 Malcolm LeBlanc and members of his family filed this appeal following dismissal of their suit for damages against Appellees. Malcolm LeBlanc’s complaint alleged *320 that after working as a tanker truck driver for over 30 years transporting Appellees’ products containing high concentrations of benzene, he was diagnosed with myelofibrosis (more specifically, myelofibrosis with myeloid metaplasia—MMM), a rare disease of the bone marrow and/or blood. He alleged that his exposure to Appellees’ products caused him to develop MMM.
 
Appellants tendered an expert, Dr. Frank Gardner, who supported their claim that the exposure to benzene caused plaintiff’s disease. Appellees challenged Dr. Gardner’s testimony as unreliable under Federal Rule of Evidence 702 and Daubert v. Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals, Inc.1
 
After extensive briefing, but without a hearing, the district court concluded that Dr. Gardner’s testimony was not sufficiently reliable to pass muster under Daubert and its progeny. Because Appellant had no other evidence on the critical causation issue, the district court dismissed the suit and this appeal followed.
 

II.
The district court filed a thorough, written opinion supporting its order granting Appellee’s motion in limine and finding Dr. Gardner’s testimony unreliable. The district court considered most of the studies Dr. Gardner relied upon and gave its reasons for finding each study unpersuasive.
 
At the time the district court issued its order, the Federal Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR), had issued a draft report on benzene. The draft describes the toxicological properties of benzene and some of the harm to animals and humans the authors conclude is caused by exposure to benzene. Because the report was still in draft form and the time for notice and comment had not expired when the district court issued its ruling, the court declined to consider it.2 During the pendency of this appeal, all counsel agreed that the draft has received final approval.
 
We leave to the district court, after receiving input from the parties in a hearing, if necessary, to determine the significance of this report on the court’s final decision regarding the admissibility of Dr. Gardner’s opinion. We explain below, however, why we believe the report deserves careful consideration in this respect.
 
The ATSDR report on benzene3 was prepared in accordance with federal laws that require the ATSDR to prepare toxicological profiles for hazardous substances that pose significant potential threat to human health, as determined by the ATSDR and the Environmental Protection Agency.4 This report, in its final form, recites that it was authored by a number of experts,5 was reviewed internally by the *321 ATSDR,6 and peer reviewed by additional experts who “collectively have knowledge of benzene’s physical and chemical properties, toxicokinetics, key health end points, mechanisms of action, human and animal exposure, and quantification of risk to humans.”7 The report was put into final form at the end of the prescribed time period during which comments were allowed to be submitted to the draft version and this final form supersedes previous versions.8
 
**2 In addition to disregarding the report on the basis that it was a draft, the district court also noted in a footnote that the draft report’s conclusion that benzene causes acute myelogenous leukemia was irrelevant. However, in the report, the ATSDR concluded that “[b]enzene also causes a life-threatening disorder called aplastic anemia in humans and animals.”9 The report also states that myelofibrosis (the disease with which Appellant has been diagnosed) is a form of aplastic anemia.10 Appellants point out that the relevant portions of both the draft and final reports are substantively the same, and Appellees do not dispute this. Indeed, both the final and draft versions of the report include the aplastic anemia and myelofibrosis statements discussed above. In light of the apparent link the report makes between Appellant’s disease and aplastic anemia, which the report states is caused by benzene exposure, as well as the number and quality of the experts who participated in the production of the final version of the ATSDR report, we conclude that this report deserves the careful consideration of the district court before reaching a final conclusion on the reliability of Dr. Gardner’s testimony.
 
Accordingly, it is ordered that the judgment appealed from is vacated, and this case is remanded to the district court to reconsider its ruling on the admissibility of Dr. Gardner’s testimony in light of the ATSDR Benzene Toxicology Report discussed above, including its references to aplastic anemia and benzene. The district *322 court is free to hold a Daubert hearing if, in its discretion, it concludes that one is necessary. It is also free to reconsider and reevaluate studies it initially found unpersuasive, in light of the above report.
 
VACATED.
 
REMANDED.
 
All Citations
275 Fed.Appx. 319, 2008 WL 1805448
Footnotes

*

District Judge of the Western District of Louisiana, sitting by designation.

**

Pursuant to 5TH CIR. R. 47.5, the court has determined that this opinion should not be published and is not precedent except under the limited circumstances set forth in 5TH CIR. R. 47.5.4.

1

509 U.S. 579, 113 S.Ct. 2786, 125 L.Ed.2d 469 (1993).

2

LeBlanc v. Chevron USA, Inc., 513 F.Supp.2d 641, 655 n. 24 (E.D.La.2007). The court declined to consider the draft report based on the following disclaimer it contained: “This information is distributed solely for the purpose of pre dissemination public comment under applicable information quality guidelines. It has not been formally disseminated by the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry. It does not represent and should not be construed to represent any agency determination or policy.” Id. (citing ATSDR 2005 Draft Profile of Benzene).

3

The final version of the report is available at: http://www. atsdr.cdc.gov/toxprofiles/tp3.pdf

4

Id. at vi. Toxicological reports are prepared by ATSDR in accordance with the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA), 42 U.S.C. § 9601 et seq., as amended. Id.

5

The contributors to this report are: Sharon Wilbur, M.A., Sam Keith, M.S., C.H.P., Obaid Faroon, Ph.D., ATSDR, Division of Toxicology and Environmental Medicine, Atlanta, GA; David Wohlers, Ph.D., Julie Stickney, Ph.D., Sari Paikoff, Ph.D., Gary Diamond, Ph.D., Antonio Quinones–Rivera, Ph.D., Syracuse Research Corporation, North Syracuse, NY. Id. at ix.

6

This report underwent the following ATSDR internal reviews:
“1. Health Effects Review. The Health Effects Review Committee examines the health effects chapter of each profile for consistency and accuracy in interpreting health effects and classifying end points. 2. Minimal Risk Level Review. The Minimal Risk Level Workgroup considers issues relevant to substance-specific minimal Risk Levels (MRLs), reviews the health effects database of each profile, and makes recommendations for derivation of MRLs. 3. Data Needs Review. The Applied Toxicology Branch reviews data needs sections to assure consistency across profiles and adherence to instructions in the Guidance. 4. Green Border Review. Green Border review assures the consistency with ATSDR policy.”
Id.

7

According to the report, the panel assembled to peer review the report on benzene consisted of: Dr. Jeffrey Fisher, Professor and Department Head, Department of Environmental Health Science, University of Georgia, Athens, GA; Dr. Tee Guidotti, Chair and Professor, Department of Occupational and Environmental Health, School of Public Health and Sciences, The George Washington University Medical Center, Washington, D.C.; and Dr. Rogene Henderson, Senior Scientist, Lovelace Respiratory Research Institute, Albuquerque, NM. Id. at xi.

8

Id. at iii.

9

Id. at 12. In partial support of this conclusion, the report mentions the Tondel study in which a gasoline attendant exposed to benzene was diagnosed with myelofibrosis. Id. at 13; 81–82.

10

Id. at 13.


End of Document

© 2017 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.


