

 


U.S. v. Apple Inc.
United States Court of Appeals, Second Circuit. | February 10, 2014 | Not Reported in F.3d | 2014 WL 1623734

Document Details

Outline
Attorneys and Law Firms
Opinion
All Citations

standard Citation:

United States v. Apple Inc., No. 13-3741, 2014 WL 1623734 (2d Cir. Feb. 10, 2014)

All Citations:

Not Reported in F.3d, 2014 WL 1623734

Search Details

Search Query:

adv: NAME(”apple, inc.”)

Jurisdiction:

New York

Delivery Details

Date:

November 17, 2017 at 9:14 PM

Delivered By:

Vincent Sheu

Client ID:

SHEU VINCENT




2014 WL 1623734
Only the Westlaw citation is currently available.
United States Court of Appeals,
Second Circuit.
UNITED STATES of America, Appellee,
v.
APPLE INC., Appellant,
Texas, et al., Appellee,
v.
Apple Inc., Appellant.
Nos. 13–3741, 14–60, 14–61.
|
Feb. 10, 2014.
Attorneys and Law Firms
Finnuala K. Tessier, Robert Nicholson, United States Department of Justice, Irvin B. Nathan, Esq., Office of the Attorney General for the District of Columbia, Washington, DC, Eric Lipman, Andrew S. Oldham, Office of the Attorney General, State of Texas, Austin, TX, W. Joseph Nielsen, Gary Mann Becker, Office of the Attorney General, State of Connecticut, Hartford, CT, Jose G. Diaz–Tejera, Office of the Attorney General Office of Monopolistic Affairs, San Juan, PR, John E. Swallow, Esq., Office of the Attorney General, State of Utah, Salt Lake City, UT, Luther Strange, Esq., Office of the Attorney General, State of Alabama, Montgomery, AL, Jeffrey P. Hallem, Office of the Attorney General, State of South Dakota, Pierre, SD, Wayne Stenehjem, Esq., Office of the Attorney General,, Bismark, ND, Nancy M. Bonnell, Office of the Attorney General, Phoenix, AZ, Gregory John Walklin, Esq., Office of the Attorney General, State Of Nebraska, Lincoln, NE, Jason Robert Evans, Esq., Office of the Attorney General, State of Michigan, Lansing, MI, Devin M. Laiho, Office of the Attorney General, State of Colorado, Denver, CO, Ryan Kriger, Office of the Attorney General, State of Vermont, Montpelier, VT, Michael Paul Franck, Esq., Office of the Attorney General, State of Massachusetts, Boston, MA, Chadwick O. Brooker, Office of the Attorney General, State of Illinois, Chicago, IL, Douglas L. Davis, Office of the Attorney General, State of West Virginia, Charleston, WV, Nicholas Mark Sydow, Esq., Office of the Attorney General, State of New Mexico, Santa Fe, NM, Layne M. Lindebak, Office of the Attorney General, State of Iowa, Des Moines, IA, Kenneth T. Cuccinelli, Esq., Office of the Attorney General, Richmond, VA, Lynette Renee Bakker, Esq., Office of the Attorney General, State of Kansas, Topeka, KS, Ellen S. Cooper, Office of the Attorney General, State of Maryland, Baltimore, MD, Won S. Shin, New York State Office of the Attorney General, New York, NY, Lawrence G. Wasden, Esq., Office of the Attorney General, State of Idaho, Boise, ID, Anne E. Schneider, Office of the Attorney General, State of Missouri, Jefferson City, MO, Sarah R. Tacker, Esq., Office of the Attorney General, State of Arkansas, Little Rock, AR, James D. Caldwell, Esq., Office of the Attorney General, State of Louisiana, Baton Rouge, LA, James A. Donahue, III, Office of the Attorney General, State of Pennsylvania, Harrisburg, PA, Gwendolyn Jean Cooley, Office of the Attorney General, State of Wisconsin, Madison, WI, Joseph R. Biden, III, Esq., Office of the Attorney General, State of Delaware, Dover, DE, for Plaintiff–Appellee.
Theodore J. Boutrous, Jr., Esq., Daniel Glen Swanson, Esq., Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP, Los Angeles, CA, Cynthia E. Richman, Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP, Washington, DC, Orin Samuel Snyder, Esq ., Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP, James W. Quinn, Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP, Eamon Paul Joyce, Joel M. Mitnick, Esq., Mark D. Taticchi, Esq., Sidley Austin LLP, New York, NY, for Defendant–Appellant.
Present PIERRE N. LEVAL, GUIDO CALABRESI and GERARD E. LYNCH, Circuit Judges.
Opinion

*1 These appeals are considered in tandem for purposes of this order.
 
Appellant Apple, Inc., moves for a stay of the portion of the district court’s order and judgment imposing an external compliance monitor.
 
During the argument, it became apparent that the parties differed considerably regarding the proper interpretation of the order as to the scope of the monitor’s duties, particularly with respect to two questions: First, whether the monitor was empowered to demand access to any document, and to interview Apple executives with respect to any subject, without limitation, and without regard to the relevance of such documents or subjects to the specific purpose of the monitorship. Second, whether the monitor had the authority to investigate new violations of anti-trust laws (or, for that matter, any unlawful conduct), or if the order limited the monitor to determining whether Apple had instituted appropriate compliance programs and taken steps to ensure that those programs were effectively communicated to Apple’s officers and employees.
 
Counsel for the government, also representing the state appellees for purposes of the argument, explicitly stated that the district court’s order should be interpreted narrowly. According to the government, the injunction allowed the monitor to assess the appropriateness of the compliance programs adopted by Apple and the means used to communicate those programs to its personnel. As the government explained at oral argument, the injunction “ensur[es] not just that [Apple] ha[s] an anti-trust compliance program in place but [that Apple’s] employees particularly, senior executives and board members are being instructed on what those compliance policies mean and how they work.” The government conceded that the injunction would not allow the monitor to investigate whether such personnel were in fact complying with the antitrust or other laws.
 
Thus, according to appellees, the monitor was empowered to demand only documents relevant to his authorized responsibility as so defined, and to interview Apple directors, officers, and employees only on subjects relevant to that responsibility. We agree with that interpretation of the district court’s order. In addition, we take counsel’s statement as a formal representation that appellees also accept that interpretation, and that the monitor will conduct his activities within the bounds of that order, absent further action by the district court or by the panel that will in due course hear the merits of the appeal.
 
Upon due consideration, it is hereby ORDERED that the motion is DENIED because, on the above understanding of the order and judgment, Appellant Apple had not demonstrated that it is entitled to a stay pending appeal. See In re World Trade Ctr. Disaster Site Litig., 503 F.3d 167, 170 (2d Cir.2007).
 
All Citations
Not Reported in F.3d, 2014 WL 1623734
End of Document

© 2017 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.


