




In re Benjamin Moore & Co.
United States Court of Appeals, Fifth Circuit. | October 4, 2002 | 309 F.3d 296 | 2002 WL 31236428

Document Details

Outline
West Headnotes
Attorneys and Law Firms
Opinion
Concurring Opinion
All Citations
Appended Content
Negative Treatment

KeyCite:

KeyCite Yellow Flag - Negative Treatment
 Declined to Follow by Central Bank v. Jerrolds, W.D.Tenn., March 31, 2015

standard Citation:

In re Benjamin Moore & Co., 309 F.3d 296 (5th Cir. 2002)

All Citations:

309 F.3d 296

Search Details

Search Query:

adv: NAME(”berkshire hathaway”)

Jurisdiction:

Mississippi

Delivery Details

Date:

November 18, 2017 at 2:36 AM

Delivered By:

Vincent Sheu

Client ID:

SHEU VINCENT





KeyCite Yellow Flag - Negative Treatment
 	Declined to Follow by Central Bank v. Jerrolds, W.D.Tenn., March 31, 2015
309 F.3d 296
United States Court of Appeals,
Fifth Circuit.
In Re: BENJAMIN MOORE & COMPANY, wholly-owned subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway, Inc.; Berkshire Hathaway, Inc.; NL Industries, Inc.; Valhi, Inc., holder of 10% or more of NL publicly-traded stock; Tremont Corp., holder of 10% or more of NL publicly-traded stock; Sherwin–Williams Company, Petitioners.
No. 02–60714.
|
Oct. 4, 2002.
Defendants who had removed state court cause of action to federal court petitioned for writ of mandamus based on failure of the United States District Court for the Southern District of Mississippi, David C. Bramlette, III, J., to address whether diversity jurisdiction was fraudulently defeated by misjoinder of nondiverse plaintiffs. The Court of Appeals held that, prior to concluding that it could not exercise diversity jurisdiction over removed case, based upon claims that four of the seventeen plaintiffs had asserted against nondiverse defendants, district court should have considered whether these four plaintiffs, who had nothing in common with each other or with other plaintiffs, had been fraudulently misjoined in order to defeat diversity.
 
Writ denied without prejudice.
 
Robert M. Parker, Circuit Judge, specially concurred and assigned reasons.
 


West Headnotes (1)


[1]

Removal of CasesImproper or Collusive Joinder of Parties


334Removal of Cases
334IIICitizenship or Alienage of Parties
334k36Improper or Collusive Joinder of Parties


Prior to concluding that it could not exercise diversity jurisdiction over removed case, based upon claims that four of the seventeen plaintiffs had asserted against nondiverse defendants, district court should have considered whether these four plaintiffs, who had nothing in common with each other or with other plaintiffs, had been fraudulently misjoined in order to defeat diversity.
110 Cases that cite this headnote



Attorneys and Law Firms
*297 Dudley Collier Graham, Jr., Wise, Carter, Child & Caraway, Jackson, MS, for Benjamin Moore & Co.
F. Ewin Henson, III, James E. Upshaw, Upshaw, Williams, Biggers, Beckham & Riddick, Greenwood, MS, Mark Claibrone Carroll, Upshaw, Williams, Biggers, Beckham & Riddick, Ridgeland, MS, for all Petitioners.
William Hugh Gillon, IV, Upshaw, Williams, Biggers, Beckham & Riddick, Ridgeland, MS, Antony B. Klapper, Michael D. Jones, Eric B. Wolff, Kirkland & Ellis, Washington, DC, for NL Industries, Inc.
John G. Corlew, Watkins & Eager, Jackson, MS, for Sherwin–Williams Co.
Timothy W. Porter, Patrick Cash Malouf, Porter & Malouf, Jackson, MS, John A. Foxworth, Jr., Michael J. Casano, Foxworth & Casano, Gulfport, MS, for all Plaintiffs–Respondents.
Robert Allred Pritchard, Christopher Eugene Fitzgerald, Robert Pritchard Law Firm, Pascagoula, MS, Robert F. Wilkins, Pritchard Law Firm, Jackson, MS, for Washington, Reed, Hicks and Johnson.
Mark W. Davis, Ronald Martin Feder, Davis & Feder, Gulfport, MS, for Randle, Helm and Harrell.
Roland M. Slover, Thomas W. Tardy, III, Forman, Perry, Watkins, Krutz & Tardy, Jackson, MS, for Alexander Hardware Co., Inc., Concordia Contracting Co., Inc., Feltus Bros. Ltd., Hudson Salvage, Inc., Tyson Lumber Co. of Natchez, Stine, Inc. and True Value Hardware.
William N. Graham, Aultman, Tyner, Ruffin & Yarborough, Hattiesburg, MS, for Clairborne Hardware Inc.
Fred H. Krutz, III, Forman, Perry, Watkins, Krutz & Tardy, Jackson, MS, for Concordia Contracting Co., Inc., Feltus Bros. Ltd., Hudson Salvage Inc., Tyson Lumber Co. of Natchez, Stine, Inc. and True Value Hardware.
Luke M. Dove, Dove & Chill, Jackson, MS, for Darsey, Hirschs Store and Lane Hardware, Inc.
Stephen W. Rimmer, Watkins, Ludlam, Winter & Stennis, Jackson, MS, for Frierson Bldg. Supply Co.
James Tucker Mitchell, John Evans Gough, Jr., Copeland, Cook, Taylor & Bush, Ridgeland, MS, for Salvage & Liquidation Inc.
Lawrie E. Demorest, Alston & Bird, Atlanta, GA, Richard F. Yarborough, Jr., Jennifer L. Walley, Aultman, Tyner, Ruffin & Yarborough, Columbia, MS, for Lowes Home Centers Inc.
William F. Riley, Riley & Callaway, Natchez, MS, for Macs Bldg. Supply.
Danny Keith Clearman, Decatur, MS, for Mid South Lumber Inc.
J. Price Coleman, Bradley Witherspoon Smith, Baker, Donelson, Bearman & Caldwell, Jackson, MS, for Mississippi Hardware Co. and Seabrook Paint Co. of Mississippi.
William Lee Guice, III, Rushing & Guice, Biloxi, MS, for Phillips Bldg. Supply Inc.
Stephen L. Thomas, Bradley, Arant, Rose & White, Norman E. Bailey, Jr., Robert L. Gibbs, Brunini, Gratham, Grower & Hewes, Jackson, MS, Phillip Mark Crane, Lawrence B. Finn, Chad Michael Tuschman, Segal, McCambridge, Singer & Mahoney, Chicago, IL, for Sears Roebuck & Co.
Edley Hicks Jones, III, Law Office of Edley H. Jones, III, Ridgeland, MS, for Wal-Mart Associates Inc.
*298 C. Everette Boutwell, Laurel, MS, for Walters Salvage Inc.
Robert Raul Stephenson, Reeve G. Jacobus, Jr., Williford, McAllister & Jacobus, Jackson, MS, for Porters Paint.
Lucien C. Gwin, Jr., Gwin, Lewis & Punches, Natchez, MS, for Pittsburg Coating.
Petition for Writ of Mandamus to the United States District Court for the Southern District of Mississippi.
Before JOLLY, JONES and PARKER, Circuit Judges.
Opinion
BY THE COURT:

IT IS ORDERED that the petition for writ of mandamus is Denied Without Prejudice.
 
Petitioners’ motion is framed around the district court’s failure to address whether diversity jurisdiction was fraudulently defeated because among the seventeen plaintiffs herein, who have nothing in common with each other, only four have asserted claims that relate in any way to the nondiverse defendants. It may thus be contended that the other thirteen did raise claims cognizable in diversity jurisdiction. See Tapscott v. MS Dealer Serv. Corp., 77 F.3d 1353, 1360 (11th Cir.1996), abrogated on other grounds, Cohen v. Office Depot, Inc., 204 F.3d 1069 (11th Cir.2000). Further, it might be concluded that misjoinder of plaintiffs should not be allowed to defeat diversity jurisdiction. See Tapscott id. (holding misjoinder may be as fraudulent as the joinder of a resident against whom a plaintiff has no possibility of a cause of action). The district court no doubt inadvertently overlooked that this point was timely raised, but the point cannot be ignored, since it goes to the court’s jurisdiction and to the defendants’ rights to establish federal jurisdiction following removal. Because we are confident that the able district court did not intend to overlook a feature critical to jurisdictional analysis, there is no reason to grant mandamus relief at this time.
 

ROBERT M. PARKER, Circuit Judge, specially concurring:

I concur only in the result of the order that denies the petition for mandamus.
 
All Citations
309 F.3d 296
End of Document

© 2017 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.



Negative Treatment
Negative Citing References (5)
The KeyCited document has been negatively referenced by the following events or decisions in other litigation or proceedings:
Treatment
Title
Date
Type
Depth
Headnote(s)
Declined to Follow by
 1.  Osborn v. Metropolitan Life Ins. Co.
341 F.Supp.2d 1123 , E.D.Cal.
LITIGATION - Removal. Fraudulent misjoinder of claims against diverse and nondiverse defendants was issue for state court.
Oct. 20, 2004
Case

1




F.3d

Declined to Follow by
2.  Robinson v. Johnson & Johnson
2014 WL 12573515 , C.D.Cal.
Before the Court are Plaintiffs’ motion to remand (Doc. No. 9) and Defendants’ motion to stay (Doc. No. 13). The Court finds these matters appropriate for resolution without...
Mar. 12, 2014
Case

1




F.3d

Declined to Follow by
3.  Rodriguez v. Fresenius USA Inc.
2014 WL 12596484 , C.D.Cal.
Before the Court are Plaintiffs’ motion to remand (Doc. Nos. 18-19) and Defendants’ ex parte application to stay (Doc. No. 22). The Court finds these matters appropriate for...
Mar. 19, 2014
Case

1




F.3d

Declined to Follow by
4.  Central Bank v. Jerrolds  
2015 WL 1486368 , W.D.Tenn.
Before the Court are a motion to remand filed by Plaintiff, Central Bank (’’Central’’), (Docket Entry (’’D.E.’’) 11), and a motion to sever by Defendant, Berkshire Hathaway...
Mar. 31, 2015
Case

1




F.3d

Distinguished by
5.  Jacobs v. Markel Ins. Co.
2008 WL 2510132 , S.D.Miss.
The Court has before it Plaintiff Joan Elizabeth Jacobs’s (Jacobs) motion [7] to remand. For the reasons set out below, this motion will be granted. Because of my ruling on the...
June 19, 2008
Case

1




F.3d


