

 


Carter v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
United States Court of Appeals, Seventh Circuit. | May 31, 2016 | 650 Fed.Appx. 896 | 2016 WL 3063965

Document Details

Outline
Synopsis
West Headnotes
Attorneys and Law Firms
Opinion
All Citations

standard Citation:

Carter v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., 650 F. App’x 896 (7th Cir. 2016)

All Citations:

650 Fed.Appx. 896

Search Details

Search Query:

advanced: (NAME(”j.p. morgan chase” OR “jpmorgan chase”))

Jurisdiction:

Illinois

Delivery Details

Date:

November 18, 2017 at 2:55 AM

Delivered By:

Vincent Sheu

Client ID:

SHEU VINCENT




650 Fed.Appx. 896
This case was not selected for publication in West’s Federal Reporter.
See Fed. Rule of Appellate Procedure 32.1 generally governing citation of judicial decisions issued on or after Jan. 1, 2007. See also U.S.Ct. of App. 7th Cir. Rule 32.1.
United States Court of Appeals,
Seventh Circuit.
Thomas John Carter, Plaintiff–Appellant,
v.
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., and U.S. Security Associates, Inc., Defendants–Appellees.
No. 16–1082
|
Submitted May 31, 2016*
|
Decided May 31, 2016
Synopsis
Background: Prospective employee who was not hired for job following off-site interview conducted after he was denied admittance to building where interview had originally been scheduled to occur filed employment discrimination complaint, which was dismissed by the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois. Prospective employee appealed.
 
[Holding:] The Court of Appeals, Matthew F. Kennelly, J., held that employee waived any claim of error by district court in dismissing his employment discrimination claims.
 
Affirmed.
 


West Headnotes (1)


[1]

Federal CourtsFailure to mention or inadequacy of treatment of error in appellate briefs


170BFederal Courts
170BXVIICourts of Appeals
170BXVII(K)Scope and Extent of Review
170BXVII(K)5Waiver of Error in Appellate Court
170Bk3733Failure to mention or inadequacy of treatment of error in appellate briefs


Prospective employee who was not hired for job following off-site interview conducted after he was denied admittance to building where interview had originally been scheduled to occur, as result of security guard’s mistake in erroneously believing that prospective employee’s military identification card was not suitable form of identification to gain entrance to building, waived any claim of error by district court in dismissing his employment discrimination claims, where his appellate brief did not identify any disagreement with reasons given by district court for its decision, but addressed only security guard’s alleged violation of protocol in refusing to admit him, without explaining how this was relevant to his discrimination claims.
1 Cases that cite this headnote



Appeal from the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois, Eastern Division. No. 15 C 2256, Matthew F. Kennelly, Judge.
Attorneys and Law Firms
Thomas John Carter, Pro Se.
Heather Nicole Mitchell, Attorney, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Law Department, Chicago, IL, for Defendant–Appellee JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
Craig R. Thorstenson, Attorney, Ford & Harrison LLP, Chicago, IL, for Defendants–Appellees.
Before FRANK H. EASTERBROOK, Circuit Judge, MICHAEL S. KANNE, Circuit Judge, ANN CLAIRE WILLIAMS, Circuit Judge


ORDER
Thomas Carter, a retired Army officer, was invited to interview for a job with a company performing contract work for JPMorgan Chase. When he arrived at the Chase facility where the interview was to be conducted, Carter was turned away by the building manager and a security guard employed by U.S. Security Associates. They had concluded—incorrectly, as it *897 turned out—that, under Chase protocol for that building, Carter’s military ID was not a suitable form of identification to gain entry. The interview went forward (off site), but Carter was not hired. He later filed this lawsuit against Chase and U.S. Security Associates, essentially alleging that their employees’ miscue had cost him the job. In his operative complaint Carter raised a litany of claims, including “employment discrimination,” “age discrimination,” violation of the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act, see 38 U.S.C. § 4311, and even racketeering. The district court dismissed the action on the defendants’ motion, reasoning that Carter had not alleged a plausible claim.
 
Carter has appealed the dismissal, but his brief does not identify any disagreement with the district court’s reasons for dismissing his lawsuit. Instead he emphasizes that the defendants’ employees disregarded the facility’s “standard operating procedure,” which lists a military ID as an acceptable form of identification. Carter also accuses the defendants of lying and “engaging in a cover-up” after he filed a related charge of discrimination with the Illinois Department of Human Rights. But Carter does not explain the relevance of these contentions, which do not undermine the district court’s analysis. He thus has waived any argument that the district court erred. See FED. R. APP. P. 28(a)(8)(A); Rahn v. Bd. of Trustees of N. Ill. Univ., 803 F.3d 285, 295 (7th Cir. 2015); Yasinskyy v. Holder, 724 F.3d 983, 989 (7th Cir. 2013).
 
AFFIRMED.
 
All Citations
650 Fed.Appx. 896
Footnotes

*

After examining the briefs and record, we have concluded that oral argument is unnecessary. Thus the appeal is submitted on the briefs and record. See FED. R. APP. P. 34(a)(2)(C).


End of Document

© 2017 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.


