

 


Arunachalam v. International Business Machines Corporation
United States Court of Appeals, Federal Circuit. | March 22, 2017 | Not Reported in F.3d | 2017 WL 3923940

Document Details

Outline
Attorneys and Law Firms
Opinion
All Citations

standard Citation:

Arunachalam v. Int’l Bus. Machines Corp., No. 2017-1721, 2017 WL 3923940 (Fed. Cir. Mar. 22, 2017)

All Citations:

Not Reported in F.3d, 2017 WL 3923940

Search Details

Search Query:

advanced: (NAME(”j.p. morgan chase” OR “jpmorgan chase”))

Jurisdiction:

Delaware

Delivery Details

Date:

November 18, 2017 at 2:55 AM

Delivered By:

Vincent Sheu

Client ID:

SHEU VINCENT




2017 WL 3923940
Only the Westlaw citation is currently available.
United States Court of Appeals,
Federal Circuit.
Lakshmi ARUNACHALAM, Plaintiff–Appellant
v.
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION, J.P. Morgan Chase & Co., SAP America, Inc., Richard G. Andrews, Defendants–Appellees
2017–1721
|
Filed: 03/22/2017
Appeal from the United States District Court for the District of Delaware in No. 1:16–cv–00281–RGA, Judge Richard G. Andrews.
Attorneys and Law Firms
Lakshmi Arunachalam, Menlo Park, CA, for Plaintiff–Appellant.
Kevin J. Culligan, Esq., Maynard, Cooper & Gale, PC, New York, NY, JEssica Raatz Kunz, Esq., Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, Wilmington, De, Joseph Beauchamp, Jones Day, Houston, TX, Director, Commercial Litigation Branch, Civil Division, U.S. Department of Justice, Washington, DC, for Defendants–Appellees.


ORDER
Per Curiam.
*1 Upon review of this recently docketed appeal, the court dismisses for lack of jurisdiction.
 
Lakshmi Arunachalam brought the underlying suit in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. Dr. Arunachalam’s operative complaint asserted a patent infringement claim against International Business Machines Corporation (“IBM”) and claims for “racketeering [and] conspiracy to engage in a pattern of racketeering activity” against IBM, SAP America, Inc., J.P. Morgan Chase and Company, and the trial judge in the case, Judge Richard G. Andrews.
 
The United States Attorney’s Office entered an appearance and moved to dismiss the claims as to Judge Andrews on the basis that the allegations against him occurred while he was performing his judicial duties and thus he was immune from suit. That motion was reassigned to Chief Judge Leonard P. Stark who granted the motion to dismiss all claims as to Judge Andrews. Dr. Arunachalam filed a notice of appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit, seeking review of that order.
 
The Third Circuit directed the parties to show cause why the case should not be transferred to this court. The Third Circuit also separately informed Dr. Arunachalam that the court may lack jurisdiction over the appeal because “[a]n order entered by a [d]istrict [c]ourt that decides fewer than all of the claims, or determines the rights and liabilities of fewer than all of the parties, is not immediately appealable unless the [d]istrict [c]ourt directs the entry of a final judgment as to the claim(s) or party(ies) under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 54(b).”
 
Soon thereafter, Dr. Arunachalam moved the district court to certify the order under Rule 54(b), and that motion was denied on February 24, 2017. Dr. Arunachalam also responded to the Third Circuit’s show cause orders, opposing transfer to this court and asserting that, because the district court has already removed Judge Andrews as a defendant in the case, the district court order “has been already implemented as a final judgment, even without the called for FRCP 54(b) Certification.”
 
On March 2, 2017, the Third Circuit issued an order transferring the appeal to this court. In its transfer order, the Third Circuit noted that “it appears that the Federal Circuit may not have jurisdiction over this appeal because the order appealed from dismissed only appellant’s claims against Judge Andrews and appellant’s other claims remain pending in the [d]istrict [c]ourt.” The Third Circuit, however, transferred the matter so that this court could decide its own jurisdiction over the case.
 
Ordinarily, only a final decision of a district court may be appealed, i.e., one that “ends the litigation on the merits and leaves nothing for the court to do but execute the judgment.” Catlin v. United States, 324 U.S. 229, 233 (1945); see 28 U.S.C. §§ 1291, 1295(a). The finality of a decision in a case involving multiple claims or parties is governed by Rule 54(b), which specifies that a district court may:
*2 direct entry of a final judgment as to one or more, but fewer than all, claims or parties only if the court expressly determines that there is no just reason for delay. Otherwise, any order or other decision, however designated, that adjudicates fewer than all the claims or the rights and liabilities of fewer than all the parties does not end the action as to any of the claims or parties and may be revised at any time before the entry of a judgment adjudicating all the claims and all the parties’ rights and liabilities.
Fed. R. Civ. P. 54(b). The district court denied Dr. Arunachalam’s request for entry of judgment under Rule 54(b). Thus, her notice of appeal is clearly premature. Dr. Arunachalam may, of course, appeal at a later date, if appropriate, once a final decision resolving all of the claims against the remaining defendants is entered.
 
Accordingly,
 
IT IS ORDERED THAT:
(1) The appeal is dismissed as premature.
(2) All pending motions are denied as moot.
(3) Each side shall bear its own costs.
 
All Citations
Not Reported in F.3d, 2017 WL 3923940
End of Document

© 2017 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.


