

 


Arms v. J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
United States Court of Appeals, Eleventh Circuit. | January 19, 2012 | 451 Fed.Appx. 882 | 2012 WL 147953

Document Details

Outline
Synopsis
West Headnotes
Attorneys and Law Firms
Opinion
All Citations

standard Citation:

Arms v. J.P. Morgan Chase & Co., 451 F. App’x 882 (11th Cir. 2012)

All Citations:

451 Fed.Appx. 882, 2012 WL 147953

Search Details

Search Query:

advanced: (NAME(”j.p. morgan chase” OR “jpmorgan chase”))

Jurisdiction:

Georgia

Delivery Details

Date:

November 18, 2017 at 2:51 AM

Delivered By:

Vincent Sheu

Client ID:

SHEU VINCENT




451 Fed.Appx. 882
This case was not selected for publication in the Federal Reporter.
Not for Publication in West’s Federal Reporter See Fed. Rule of Appellate Procedure 32.1 generally governing citation of judicial decisions issued on or after Jan. 1, 2007. See also Eleventh Circuit Rules 36-2, 36-3. (Find CTA11 Rule 36-2 and Find CTA11 Rule 36-3)
United States Court of Appeals,
Eleventh Circuit.
Gary C. ARMS, Plaintiff,
Charles Dubee, Anthony Giroux, Gerry Giroux, Nathan Gray, Janene Renee Gray, David Soderline, Walter Soderline, Frain Simplis, Stephanie Miller, Charles Miller, Plaintiffs–Appellants,
v.
J.P. MORGAN CHASE & CO., Defendant–Appellee.
No. 11–13773
|
Non–Argument Calendar.
|
Jan. 19, 2012.
Synopsis
Background: Property developers filed state court suit asserting claims for quiet title and declaration of relief from contractual obligation to repay construction loans to bank that purchased construction loan contracts, financing developers’ housing developments, from receiver Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), in purchase and assumption agreement, upon bankruptcy of debtor that acquired loan contracts from original lender that allegedly fraudulently induced developers to obtain loans by concealing liquidity problems and then dissolving without fully funding projects. Following removal, the United States District Court for the Southern District of Georgia granted bank’s motion to dismiss for failure to state claim. Developers appealed.
 
Holding: The Court of Appeals held that bank acquired only assets but no liabilities under purchase and assumption agreement.
 
Affirmed.
 


West Headnotes (1)


[1]

Banks and BankingRepayment of loans


52Banks and Banking
52IIIFunctions and Dealings
52III(E)Loans and Discounts
52k185Repayment of loans


Property developers’ claims for quiet title and declaration of relief from contractual obligation to repay construction loans to bank that purchased loan contracts were barred, by purchase and assumption agreement, under which bank acquired from receiver Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) only assets but not liabilities of bankrupt debtor that acquired loan contracts from original lender that allegedly fraudulently induced developers to obtain loans; agreement’s terms expressly defined liability as “any” form of relief to “any borrower,” whether “legal or equitable” or “asserted affirmatively or defensively,” and those terms were not altered by agreement’s disclaimer that only applied to rights bank might have against FDIC.
3 Cases that cite this headnote



Attorneys and Law Firms
*883 Brent J. Savage, Karl Christian Zipperer, Savage Turner Kraeuter Pinckney & Madison, Savannah, GA, for Plaintiffs–Appellants.
Julie Christine Jared, Shanon J. McGinnis, Wargo & French, LLP, Atlanta, GA, Sarah B. Atkins, Ellis Painter Ratterree & Adams, LLP, Savannah, GA, for Defendant–Appellee.
Appeal from the United States District Court for the Southern District of Georgia. D.C. Docket No. 4:10–cv–00112–WTM–GRS.
Before CARNES, WILSON and MARTIN, Circuit Judges.
Opinion
PER CURIAM:

**1 This is an appeal of the district court’s grant of J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.’s Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 12(b)(6) motion to dismiss. After thorough review, we affirm the district court.
 
In 2007, Appellants got construction loans from Transland Financial Services to finance housing developments in Savannah, Georgia. Appellants allege that Transland concealed liquidity problems from them at the time they entered into the contract, and dissolved very soon afterward without fully funding the projects. Washington Mutual Bank (“WaMu”) acquired the loan contracts from Transland, but itself declared bankruptcy in 2008 and was taken into receivership by the FDIC. Later that year, the FDIC sold WaMu’s assets, including the loan contracts at issue, to J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. (“Chase”) in a Purchase and Assumption Agreement.
 
Appellants filed suit in state court against Chase, seeking declaratory relief and to quiet title. They claim that Chase is not entitled to collect the amounts due on the loan contracts, because of fraudulent inducement on the part of Transland as well as the failure of Transland and WaMu to disburse the loan proceeds. Chase removed the case to federal court and filed a motion to dismiss for failure to state a claim. The district court granted the motion, and this appeal followed.
 
We review de novo a district court’s dismissal of a complaint for failure to state a claim. Rosenberg v. Gould, 554 F.3d 962, 965 (11th Cir.2009). In so doing, “we accept all well-pleaded facts as true, and we make all reasonable inferences in favor of the plaintiff.” Thompson v. RelationServe Media, Inc., 610 F.3d 628, 631 n. 5 (11th Cir.2010). In ruling upon a motion to dismiss, a district court may consider materials attached to pleadings if the materials are “(1) central to the plaintiff’s claim, and (2) [their] authenticity is not challenged.” SFM Holdings, Ltd. v. Banc of America Sec., LLC, 600 F.3d 1334, 1337 (11th Cir.2010). Chase attached the Purchase *884 and Assumption Agreement to its motion to dismiss. Appellants do not challenge the district court’s reliance on this document in granting the motion, and in fact, they rely upon the Agreement in their own brief.
 
On appeal, Appellants raise a number of issues, including a challenge to the district court’s conclusions regarding Chase’s status as a holder in due course under 12 U.S.C. § 1823(e) and D’Oench, Duhme & Co. v. FDIC, 315 U.S. 447, 62 S.Ct. 676, 86 L.Ed. 956 (1942). However, we need not address this issue in order to affirm the district court’s decision to dismiss the complaint. Section 2.5 of the Purchase and Assumption Agreement between Chase and the FDIC makes clear:
[A]ny liability associated with borrower claims for payment of or liability to any borrower for monetary relief, or that provide for any other form of relief to any borrower, whether or not such liability is ... legal or equitable ... whether asserted affirmatively or defensively, related in any way to any loan or commitment to lend made by the Failed Bank prior to failure ... are specifically not assumed by the Assuming Bank.
**2 The district court ruled consistent with the Agreement that when Chase purchased the loan contracts, it did not acquire any liabilities associated with those contracts.1
 
Appellants argue that Section 2.5 of the Agreement does not bar their claim, because by bringing a declaratory action to determine the “validity of the assets that Chase acquired from the FDIC,” they have not sought to impose a liability on Chase. This argument fails. The Agreement expressly includes within its definition of liability, “any ... form of relief to any borrower,” whether that relief is “legal or equitable,” or “asserted affirmatively or defensively.” Thus, Appellants’ action to secure relief from their contractual obligation to repay the loans falls squarely within the terms of Section 2.5 of the Agreement.
 
Appellants also turn our attention to Section 3.3 of the Agreement, which states, “THE CONVEYANCE OF ALL ASSETS ... SHALL BE MADE ... ‘AS IS’ [AND] WITHOUT RECOURSE AND, EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE SPECIFICALLY PROVIDED IN THIS AGREEMENT, WITHOUT ANY WARRANTIES ... WITH RESPECT TO ... ENFORCEABILITY, [OR] COLLECTIBILITY.” Appellants argue that this provision denies Chase all warranties as to the enforceability of the loan contracts. Be that as it may, this language does not negate Section 2.5 of the Agreement, by which Chase expressly did not assume any liabilities associated with the loan contracts. Instead, it disclaims certain rights that Chase might otherwise have against the FDIC. Thus, the disclaimer in Section 3.3 of the Agreement does nothing to alter Appellants’ rights under the loan contracts acquired by Chase.
 
For the aforementioned reasons, we AFFIRM the district court’s order.
 
All Citations
451 Fed.Appx. 882, 2012 WL 147953
Footnotes

1

In making this statement, we express no opinion as to whether those liabilities remained with the FDIC at the time of purchase, or whether the FDIC acquired a quasi-holder in due course status under 12 U.S.C. § 1823(e).


End of Document

© 2017 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.


