

 


Aguiar v. Recktenwald
United States Court of Appeals, Third Circuit. | May 23, 2016 | 649 Fed.Appx. 293 | 2016 WL 2962118

Document Details

Outline
Synopsis
West Headnotes
Attorneys and Law Firms
Opinion
All Citations

standard Citation:

Aguiar v. Recktenwald, 649 F. App’x 293 (3d Cir. 2016)

All Citations:

649 Fed.Appx. 293

Search Details

Search Query:

adv: NAME(”facebook”)

Jurisdiction:

Pennsylvania

Delivery Details

Date:

November 18, 2017 at 2:48 AM

Delivered By:

Vincent Sheu

Client ID:

SHEU VINCENT




649 Fed.Appx. 293
This case was not selected for publication in West’s Federal Reporter.
See Fed. Rule of Appellate Procedure 32.1 generally governing citation of judicial decisions issued on or after Jan. 1, 2007. See also U.S.Ct. of Appeals 3rd Cir. App. I, IOP 5.1, 5.3, and 5.7.
United States Court of Appeals,
Third Circuit.
Stephen AGUIAR, Appellant
v.
Warden M. RECKTENWALD, Warden; Jeff Butler, Associate Warden; C. Bergen, Captain; Jim Lyons, Special Investigations Supervisor (‘SIS”), Federal Bureau of Prisons; Margie Cook, “SIS” Technician, FBOP; John Doe, Facebook Incorporated.
No. 16–1236.
|
Submitted for Possible Dismissal
Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1915(e)(2)(B) or
Summary Action
|
Under Third Circuit LAR 27.4 and
I.O.P. 10.6 May 5, 2016.
|
Filed: May 23, 2016.
Synopsis
Background: Inmate whose online social media account was deactivated without his authorization filed § 1983 action against prison and owner of social media website. Following transfer from the United States District Court for the District of Columbia, the United States District Court for the Middle District of Pennsylvania, Malachy E. Mannion, J., 2016 WL 145259, granted prison summary judgment. Inmate appealed.
 
Holdings: The Court of Appeals held that:
 
[1] inmate had no constitutionally protected interest in use or maintenance of his online social media account, but
 
[2] even if he did, prison’s decision to deactivate account was reasonably related to legitimate penological interests.
 
Affirmed.
 


West Headnotes (2)


[1]

PrisonsComputers;  e-mail


310Prisons
310IIPrisoners and Inmates
310II(B)Care, Custody, Confinement, and Control
310k150Computers;  e-mail


Federal inmate had no constitutionally protected interest in the use or maintenance of his online social media account, as required to assert § 1983 action against prison authorities when his account was deactivated without his authorization. 42 U.S.C.A. 1983.
Cases that cite this headnote



[2]

PrisonsComputers;  e-mail


310Prisons
310IIPrisoners and Inmates
310II(B)Care, Custody, Confinement, and Control
310k150Computers;  e-mail


Even if federal inmate had a constitutionally protected interest in the use or maintenance of his online social media account, prison’s decision to exclude inmate from this activity was reasonably related to legitimate penological interests, and thus constitutionally permissible, since it was based on inmate’s specific violation of prison’s Internet policies; prison officials facilitated the deactivation of inmate’s account to prevent him from communicating, through his sister, with unmonitored contacts, which was a legitimate interest related to the security and order of the facility, despite deactivation inmate still retained traditional methods of communication, including telephone calls, postal mail, and prison visitation, permitting inmates to maintain social media accounts through their agents and to send unmonitored messages through these accounts would impose a massive burden on prison administrators to keep themselves apprised of inmate communications, and no other feasible less restrictive alternative existed that would allow prison administrators to maintain the security of inmate communications while allowing inmate to maintain his account.
Cases that cite this headnote



*294 On Appeal from the United States District Court for the Middle District of Pennsylvania, (D.C. Civil No. 3–13–cv–02616), District Judge: Honorable Malachy E. Mannion.
Attorneys and Law Firms
Kenneth Adebonojo, Office of United States Attorney, Washington, DC, Kate L. Mershimer, Esq., Melissa A. Swauger, Esq., Office of United States Attorney, Harrisburg, PA, for Appellant.
Stephen Aguiar, Petersburg, VA, pro se.
Before: CHAGARES, GREENAWAY, JR. and GARTH, Circuit Judges.


OPINION*

PER CURIAM.
Pro se appellant Stephen Aguiar appeals from an order of the United States District Court for the Middle District of Pennsylvania awarding summary judgment in his § 1983 action. As the appeal does not present a substantial question, we will summarily affirm the decision of the District Court.
 

I.
Aguiar initiated this action in 20131 alleging that the Defendants, prison officials at FCI Allenwood and a John Doe employee of Facebook, violated unspecified constitutional rights by deactivating, or facilitating *295 the deactivation of, his Facebook account. Prison investigators discovered that Aguiar was using his sister to update his Facebook account and to send messages to others on his behalf—a violation of Bureau of Prisons policy and of Facebook’s terms and conditions. Investigators subsequently requested that Facebook deactivate Aguiar’s profile, and his account was promptly disabled.
 
In a July 28, 2015 Report and Recommendation, the Magistrate Judge recommended that the Court grant the Corrections Defendants’ motion for summary judgment, finding that they were entitled to qualified immunity because Aguiar failed to allege the deprivation of a constitutional right. On January 11, 2016, the District Court adopted this Report and Recommendation in full over Aguiar’s objections2 and directed the Clerk to close this case. This timely appeal ensued.
 

II.
We have jurisdiction under 28 U.S.C. § 1291 and exercise plenary review over the District Court’s award of summary judgment, applying the same test the District Court should have utilized—whether the record “shows that there is no genuine issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” Giles v. Kearney, 571 F.3d 318, 322 (3d Cir.2009). In applying this test, we must accept evidence presented by the non-movant as true and draw all justifiable factual inferences in his favor. Id. We may summarily affirm any decision of the District Court where “it clearly appears that no substantial question is presented or that subsequent precedent or a change in circumstances warrants such action.” 3d Cir. I.O.P. 10.6 (2015).
 
[1] [2] Aguiar’s claim is premised on the existence of a constitutionally protected interest in the use and maintenance of his Facebook account. Even if he enjoys such an interest, we have no doubt that Defendants’ decision to exclude Aguiar from this activity—when his specific use violated BOP policies—was “reasonably related to legitimate penological interests,” and thus constitutionally permissible. Turner v. Safley, 482 U.S. 78, 89, 107 S.Ct. 2254, 96 L.Ed.2d 64 (1987).
 
Turner requires the consideration of four factors in determining the reasonableness of a prison regulation: (1) whether there is a “valid, rational connection between the prison regulation and the legitimate governmental interest put forward to justify it;”3 (2) “whether there are alternative means of exercising the right that remain open to prison inmates;” (3) “the impact accommodation of the asserted constitutional right will have on guards and other inmates, and on the allocation of prison resources generally;” (4) the availability *296 of other alternatives to effectuate the objective. Id. at 89–90, 107 S.Ct. 2254 (internal quotations omitted).
 
As to the first factor, prison officials facilitated the deactivation of Aguiar’s account to prevent him from communicating, through his sister, with unmonitored contacts—a legitimate interest related to the security and order of the facility.4 Secondly, despite the deactivation of his account, Aguiar still retained traditional methods of communication, including phone calls, postal mail, and prison visitation. As to the third factor, permitting inmates to maintain Facebook accounts through their agents, and to send unmonitored messages through these accounts, would impose a massive burden on prison administrators to keep themselves apprised of inmate communications. Finally, no other feasible less restrictive alternative exists—aside from continuously monitoring Aguiar’s account—that would allow prison administrators to maintain the security of inmate communications while allowing Aguiar to maintain his account.
 
Accordingly, we will summarily affirm the decision of the District Court. Aguiar’s motion for appointment of counsel is denied.
 
All Citations
649 Fed.Appx. 293
Footnotes

*

This disposition is not an opinion of the full Court and pursuant to I.O.P. 5.7 does not constitute binding precedent.

1

Aguiar initially filed this action in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia, where he is currently incarcerated. It was subsequently transferred to the Middle District of Pennsylvania.

2

The District Court previously adopted the Report and Recommendation on July 2, 2015, but vacated its order after Aguiar filed a motion to alter the judgment based on his non-receipt of the report.

3

In Beard v. Banks, 548 U.S. 521, 532, 126 S.Ct. 2572, 165 L.Ed.2d 697 (2006), the Supreme Court acknowledged the particular importance of the first factor, explaining that in some cases the second, third, and fourth factors can “add little, one way or another, to the first factor’s basic logical rationale.”

4

See generally Martin v. Brewer, 830 F.2d 76, 78 (7th Cir.1987) (citing Turner ) (“[I]n recognition of the acute security problems of modern American prisons, the courts have upheld restrictions on [ ] communications that would be intolerable if both sender and recipient were free persons.”). As the District Court noted, Aguiar could have been communicating with other inmates or gang members.


End of Document

© 2017 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.


