

 


St. Paul Fire and Marine Ins. Co. v. Microsoft Corp.
United States Court of Appeals, Eighth Circuit. | July 20, 2000 | 220 F.3d 943 | 2000 WL 994313

Document Details

Outline
West Headnotes
Attorneys and Law Firms
Opinion
All Citations

standard Citation:

St. Paul Fire & Marine Ins. Co. v. Microsoft Corp., 220 F.3d 943 (8th Cir. 2000)

All Citations:

220 F.3d 943

Search Details

Search Query:

adv: NAME(”microsoft”)

Jurisdiction:

Minnesota

Delivery Details

Date:

November 17, 2017 at 9:17 PM

Delivered By:

Vincent Sheu

Client ID:

SHEU VINCENT




220 F.3d 943
United States Court of Appeals,
Eighth Circuit.
ST. PAUL FIRE AND MARINE INSURANCE COMPANY, Plaintiff/Appellee,
v.
MICROSOFT CORPORATION, Defendant/Appellant.
No. 99-3507.
|
Submitted: June 14, 2000.
|
Filed: July 20, 2000.
Liability insurer sought declaratory judgment that it had no duty to defend or indemnify insured software manufacturer against prospective class actions brought on behalf of purchasers of allegedly defective software. Insurer moved for summary judgment, and the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota, John R. Tunheim, J., 102 F.Supp.2d 1107, granted motion. Insured appealed. The Court of Appeals held that class actions, in which explicit enumeration of damages sought included only direct damages, and not consequential damages, were outside scope of liability policies which covered manufacturer only for consequential damages.
 
Affirmed.
 


West Headnotes (1)


[1]

InsuranceScope of Coverage


217Insurance
217XVIICoverage--Liability Insurance
217XVII(B)Coverage for Particular Liabilities
217k2359Manufacturers’ or Contractors’ Liabilities
217k2361Scope of Coverage


Prospective class actions against insured software manufacturer based on manufacture of allegedly defective product, in which explicit enumeration of damages sought included only direct damages, were outside scope of liability insurance policies which covered manufacturer only for consequential damages.
Cases that cite this headnote



Attorneys and Law Firms
*943 Steven P. Zabel, Minneapolis, MN, argued (George F. McGunnigle, Minneapolis, MN, on the brief), for Appellant.
Jeffrey L. Bouslog, St. Paul, MN, argued (David M. Wilk, St. Paul, MN, on the brief), for Appellee.
Before LOKEN, BRIGHT, and ROSS, Circuit Judges.
Opinion
PER CURIAM.

St. Paul Fire and Marine Insurance Company (“St. Paul Fire”) brought an action against Microsoft Corporation (“Microsoft”) in federal district court seeking a declaratory judgment defining its obligation to defend or indemnify Microsoft under its policy insuring the Defendant.
 
In this action for declaratory judgment St. Paul Fire asserts that the plaintiffs in two class actions against Microsoft do not seek consequential damages, the only damages that are covered by the policy, according to St. Paul Fire. The two lawsuits on which St. Paul Fire has refused to defend or indemnify Microsoft are Michael H. Miller, individually and on behalf of all others similarly situated v. Microsoft Corp., (Mobile County Ct., Ala.); and Mark Manning, Steve Collins and Dana Schnitzer, on behalf of themselves and all others similarly situated v. Microsoft Corp., (Dist. Ct. of Harrison County, Tex.). Each action alleges that a putative plaintiff class suffered damage when they “purchased, licensed or otherwise acquired” Microsoft’s DOS 6.0 software.
 
The district court considered the issues on a motion for summary judgment relating to the Miller and Manning class actions and granted the motion for summary judgment. The court stated, “The explicit enumeration of the damages sought [in the lawsuits] leads to the conclusion that all other kinds of damages are excluded. Since all of the damages enumerated are direct, rather than consequential, the petitions do not state a claim for consequential damages.” Appellant’s Add. at 15. Accordingly, the district court entered a summary judgment order as follows:
The Court hereby declares that plaintiff is not obligated to defend or indemnify *944 defendant under Policy No. 696NK6427 against claims asserted in the action filed in the District Court of Harrison County, Texas, entitled, Mark Manning, Steve Collins and Dana Schnitzer, on behalf of themselves and all others similarly situated v. Microsoft Corporation.
 
The Court hereby declares that plaintiff is not obligated to defend or indemnify defendant under Policy No. 696NK6427 against claims asserted in the action filed in Mobile County Court, Alabama, entitled, Michael H. Miller, individually and on behalf of all others similarly situated v. Microsoft Corporation.
 
Id., at 18.
 
We have carefully considered the briefs, the record, and the oral argument of the parties. We conclude that the district court opinion by the Honorable John R. Tunheim fully and fairly discusses the issues and reaches the correct result in this case.
 
Accordingly, we affirm on the basis of the district court opinion, St. Paul Fire and Marine Ins. Co. v. Microsoft Corp., 102 F.Supp.2d 1107 (D.Minn.1999).
 
All Citations
220 F.3d 943
End of Document

© 2017 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.


