

 


Beijing Zhongyi Zhongbiao Electronic Information Technology Co. Ltd. v. Microsoft Corporation
United States Court of Appeals, Ninth Circuit. | July 12, 2016 | 655 Fed.Appx. 564 | 2016 WL 3693475

Document Details

Outline
Synopsis
West Headnotes
Attorneys and Law Firms
Opinion
All Citations

standard Citation:

Beijing Zhongyi Zhongbiao Elec. Info. Tech. Co. v. Microsoft Corp., 655 F. App’x 564 (9th Cir. 2016)

All Citations:

655 Fed.Appx. 564

Search Details

Search Query:

adv: NAME(”microsoft”)

Jurisdiction:

Washington

Delivery Details

Date:

November 17, 2017 at 9:17 PM

Delivered By:

Vincent Sheu

Client ID:

SHEU VINCENT




655 Fed.Appx. 564
This case was not selected for publication in West’s Federal Reporter.
See Fed. Rule of Appellate Procedure 32.1 generally governing citation of judicial decisions issued on or after Jan. 1, 2007. See also U.S.Ct. of App. 9th Cir. Rule 36-3.
United States Court of Appeals,
Ninth Circuit.
Beijing Zhongyi Zhongbiao Electronic Information Technology Co. Ltd., Plaintiff–Appellant,
v.
Microsoft Corporation, Defendant–Appellee.
No. 13–36102
|
Argued and Submitted June 8, 2016 Seattle, Washington
|
FILED July 12, 2016
Synopsis
Background: Licensor of Chinese character fonts brought copyright infringement action against licensee. The United States District Court for the Western District of Washington, Marsha J. Pechman, Senior District Judge, 2013 WL 6979555, granted licensee’s motion to dismiss for failure to state claim. Licensor appealed.
 
[Holding:] The Court of Appeals held that licensee did not infringe licensor’s copyright by using licensor’s Chinese character fonts in computer operating systems released after system specified in license agreement’s recitals.
 
Affirmed.
 


West Headnotes (2)


[1]

Copyrights and Intellectual PropertyOther works


99Copyrights and Intellectual Property
99ICopyrights
99I(J)Infringement
99I(J)1What Constitutes Infringement
99k67.3Other works


Under Washington law, license agreement included a license to use licensor’s Chinese character fonts in any of licensee’s computer operating systems, not only version of operating agreement specified in agreement’s recitals, and thus licensee did not infringe licensor’s copyright by using fonts in operating systems released after system specified in recitals; agreement’s terms granted licensee a “perpetual” license to use the fonts in “any” of its software products.
Cases that cite this headnote



[2]

Copyrights and Intellectual PropertyContracts relating to copyrights


99Copyrights and Intellectual Property
99ICopyrights
99I(E)Transfer
99k49Contracts relating to copyrights


Under Washington law, licensor was not permitted to use memorandum of understanding with licensee to limit license agreement’s broad terms that allowed licensee to use licensor’s Chinese character fonts in any of licensee’s software operating systems, rather than, as licensor contended, only in specific system named in agreement’s recital; contracting party was not permitted to use such extrinsic evidence to add new extra-contractual limitation to contract.
Cases that cite this headnote



*565 Appeal from the United States District Court for the Western District of Washington, Marsha J. Pechman, Senior District Judge, Presiding, D.C. No. 2:13–cv–01300–MJP
Attorneys and Law Firms
Jeffrey Daniel Smyth, Attorney, Shaobin Zhu, Attorney, Finnegan, Henderson, Farabow, Garrett & Dunner, LLP, Palo Alto, CA, E. Robert Yoches, Attorney, Finnegan Henderson Farabow Garrett & Dunner, LLP, Washington, DC, for Plaintiff–Appellant
Ambika Kumar Doran, Attorney, John A. Goldmark, I, Esquire, Stephen M. Rummage, Esquire, Davis Wright Tremaine LLP, Seattle, WA, for Defendant–Appellee
Before: PAEZ, BYBEE, and CHRISTEN, Circuit Judges.


MEMORANDUM*
Beijing Zhongyi Zhongbiao Electronic Information Technology Co. Ltd. (“Zhongyi”) sued Microsoft Corporation (“Microsoft”) alleging copyright infringement. The district court dismissed the complaint and Zhongyi appeals. We have jurisdiction, 28 U.S.C. § 1291, and affirm.
 
[1]Zhongyi argues that the district court erred by finding that the license agreement between Zhongyi and Microsoft included a license to use Zhongyi’s fonts in operating systems released after Windows 95. We disagree. The agreement’s terms granted Microsoft a “perpetual” license to *566 use the fonts in “any” Microsoft software product.
 
[2]Nor did the district court err by refusing to look to memoranda of understanding between Microsoft and the Chinese government as extrinsic evidence of a limitation on these broad contract terms. Washington law does not permit a contracting party to use extrinsic evidence to add a new extra-contractual limitation to a contract. See Hearst Commc’ns, Inc. v. Seattle Times Co., 154 Wash.2d 493, 115 P.3d 262, 267 (2005) (en banc).
 
Zhongyi also argues that the district court erred by failing to grant Zhongyi leave to amend to assert that the Chinese-language versions of the memoranda of understanding between the Chinese government and Microsoft more clearly showed Zhongyi and Microsoft’s intent to limit the license’s scope to Windows 95. But this amendment would be futile because, as discussed above, the district court was correct to not look to the memoranda as extrinsic evidence of an extra-contractual limitation on the contract’s terms. Regardless, Zhongyi identifies only a single, insignificant translation discrepancy in one of the two memoranda.
 
Finally, Zhongyi seeks leave to amend to assert that, under Chinese law, the license agreement required Chinese governmental approval, and the memoranda showed that the Chinese government only approved a license for Windows 95. Even assuming that Washington would refuse to enforce a contract that violates Chinese law, and that Zhongyi has standing to raise this argument, leave to amend would be futile because neither memorandum actually limited the scope of future licensing to Windows 95.1
 
AFFIRMED.
 
All Citations
655 Fed.Appx. 564
Footnotes

*

This disposition is not appropriate for publication and is not precedent except as provided by 9th Cir. R. 36–3.

1

In its briefing, Zhongyi sought leave to amend to assert a reformation claim. Zhongyi also sought a ruling that Microsoft was collaterally estopped from asserting its non-infringement argument and its broad reading of the license agreement due to a Chinese court’s contrary findings in a parallel proceeding. Counsel explicitly waived these arguments at oral argument.


End of Document

© 2017 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.


