

 


Pola v. Utah
United States Court of Appeals, Tenth Circuit. | February 1, 2012 | 458 Fed.Appx. 760 | 2012 WL 292272

Document Details

Outline
Synopsis
West Headnotes
Attorneys and Law Firms
Opinion
All Citations

standard Citation:

Pola v. Utah, 458 F. App’x 760 (10th Cir. 2012)

All Citations:

458 Fed.Appx. 760, 2012 WL 292272

Search Details

Search Query:

adv: NAME(”microsoft”)

Jurisdiction:

Utah

Delivery Details

Date:

November 17, 2017 at 9:17 PM

Delivered By:

Vincent Sheu

Client ID:

SHEU VINCENT




458 Fed.Appx. 760
This case was not selected for publication in the Federal Reporter.
Not for Publication in West’s Federal Reporter. See Fed. Rule of Appellate Procedure 32.1 generally governing citation of judicial decisions issued on or after Jan. 1, 2007. See also Tenth Circuit Rule 32.1. (Find CTA10 Rule 32.1)
United States Court of Appeals,
Tenth Circuit.
Kenneth Paul POLA, individually and as a parent to minor WLP, Plaintiff–Appellant,
v.
State of UTAH; Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints; Mark Van Rosenvelt, Lt.; Alicia Zavala–Lopez; America First Credit Union; American Family Insurance; Anita Monson; Apollo Group; Barack Hussein Obama, President; Best Buy; Blair Smith; Boyd K. Packer; Brandon B. Saltzgiver; Brendan P. McCullagh; Brian Corpron; Brian Dunn; Brian R. Barnhill; Brooke R. Page; Camie Pratt; Candace A. Gleed; Cary Evans; Cathy Mullins; Cheryl Lawson; Christy Chandonia; Cindee Jensen; Cindy Christensen; Convergys; Danny Giron; Darren Mower; Dave Hoenshell; David E. Yocom; David J. Holdsworth; Debbie L. Hann; Denice Brown Pola; Directv, Inc.; Don Walker; Ernest Gonzales; Fred M. Civish; Fred W. Pola; Gary R. Herbert; Greg Goodman; Heather Gunnerson Morrison; Intermountain Health Care Inc.; Ingdirect; James H. Deans; James Russo; James W. Winder; Jamie Locke; Janice Barson; Jean D. Ashley; Jim Karpowitz; Joe Tate; John Pearce; John Swallows; Jon M. Huntsman, Jr.; Kara Weston; Kenneth Sardoni; Keith L. Stoney; Kristen Cox; Lane Morris; Larry Thorne; Leigh A. Adams–Curd; Levi Lorenc; Mark Ferraro; Mark L. Shurtleff; Marty B. Bushman; Mathew Mower; Melanie Serassio; Michael O. Leavitt; Microsoft; Mike Miller; Mike Winder; Monica Austin; Murry Jensen; Norman Johnson; Arnold, Officer; Black, Officer; Cordova, Officer; (FNU) Sanders, Officer; FNU Sanford, Officer; Stokes, Officer; Reggie Johnson, Officer; Pam Giron; Pat Nola; Paul D. Isaac; Paul G. Amann; Paul N. Benner; Phillip D. Beck; Qwest; Randy Maurer; Richard Bagley; Richard Catten; Russell N. Condie; Ryan Robinson; Ryan Rock; Sarah Byrd; Scott K. Sorenson; Scott Springer; Stokes, Sgt.; Shane McCauley; M. MacKay, Sheriff; Sherrie M. Hayashi; Sorenson Communications, Inc.; Stephen B. Watkins; Steve Crawford; Suzette Falks; Thayle Nielsen; Timothy Dennis; Tracy Boughn; Trina Orr; Valarie Washington; Vern Greenhalgh; Wayne T. Pyle; West Valley City; FNU Wilson; Fnu Moon; Aurora Holley, ALJ; Reggie Johnson, Defendants–Appellees.
No. 11–4040.
|
Feb. 1, 2012.
Synopsis
Background: Pro se litigant brought action against State of Utah and other defendants. The United States District Court for the District of Utah dismissed complaint for failure to state claim. Litigant appealed.
 
Holdings: The Court of Appeals, Paul J. Kelly, Jr., Circuit Judge, held that:
 
[1] Court of Appeals was unable to determine issues that litigant was attempting to appeal and would not grant him relief, and
 
[2] litigant’s attacks on district judge in his brief on appeal disentitled litigant to appellate review.
 
Affirmed.
 


West Headnotes (4)


[1]

Federal CourtsSpecification of errors;  points and arguments


170BFederal Courts
170BXVIICourts of Appeals
170BXVII(H)Briefs
170Bk3503Specification of errors;  points and arguments
(Formerly 170Bk714)


Pro se litigant’s appellate brief, which consisted of rambling conclusory allegations of wrongs committed by various defendants, was wholly inadequate to preserve issues for review and did not comply with governing rule, and therefore Court of Appeals was unable to determine issues that litigant was attempting to appeal and would not grant him relief. F.R.A.P.Rule 28, 28 U.S.C.A.
1 Cases that cite this headnote



[2]

Federal CourtsSpecification of errors;  points and arguments


170BFederal Courts
170BXVIICourts of Appeals
170BXVII(H)Briefs
170Bk3503Specification of errors;  points and arguments
(Formerly 170Bk714)


Pro se litigant’s attacks on district judge in his brief on appeal disentitled litigant to appellate review.
1 Cases that cite this headnote



[3]

Federal CourtsDefects, objections, and amendments;  striking brief


170BFederal Courts
170BXVIICourts of Appeals
170BXVII(H)Briefs
170Bk3504Defects, objections, and amendments;  striking brief
(Formerly 170Bk715)


Exercising its inherent power to impose order, respect, decorum, silence, and compliance with lawful mandates, Court of Appeals would strike pro se litigant’s abusive and offensive language in his appellate brief. Fed.Rules Civ.Proc.Rule 12(f), 28 U.S.C.A.
Cases that cite this headnote



[4]

Federal CourtsOther particular cases


170BFederal Courts
170BXVIICourts of Appeals
170BXVII(F)Supersedeas or Stay of Proceedings
170Bk3463Other particular cases
(Formerly 170Bk686)


Failure of pro se litigant, on appeal, to follow mandated procedures and to make required showings to obtain stay warranted denial of his motions seeking injunctive relief from Court of Appeals. F.R.A.P.Rule 8(a), 28 U.S.C.A.; U.S.Ct. of App. 10th Cir.Rules 8.1, 8.2, 28 U.S.C.A.
Cases that cite this headnote



Attorneys and Law Firms
*762 Kenneth Paul Pola, Irving, TX, pro se.
Peggy E. Stone, Office of the Attorney General for the State of Utah, Michael D. Johnston, Daniel S. McConkie, Kirton & McConkie, Stephen K. Christiansen, Esq., Van Cott, Bagley, Cornwall & McCarthy, P.C., David P. Williams, Snell & Wilmer, L.L.P., Patrick C. Burt, Gregory J. Sanders, Kipp and Christian, P.C., Maralyn M. English, Camille N. Johnson, Snow, Christensen & Martineau, Michael Patrick O’Brien, Mark D. Tolman, Jones, Waldo, Holbrook & McDonough, Gary L. Johnson, Zachary E. Peterson, Richards Brandt Miller & Nelson, Glenn R. Bronson, Prince, Yeates & Geldzahler, Elliott James Williams, Williams & Hunt, Rodger Moore Burge, Parr Brown Gee & Loveless, P.C., Nicholas M. D’Alesandro, Jr., Esq., Donald H. Hansen, Robert O. Rice, Esq., Liesel Brand Stevens, Esq., Ray Quinney & Nebeker P.C., Michael G. Barker, Unified Police Department, Dennis C. Ferguson, Williams & Hunt, Salt Lake City, UT, Brian R. Barnhill, Matt Osborne, Osborne & Barnhill, Draper, UT, James L. Beausoleil, Jr., Esq., Ryan E. Borneman, Duane Morris LLP, Philadelphia, PA, for Defendant–Appellee.
Denice Brown Pola, Lehi, UT, pro se.
Fred W. Pola, Lehi, UT, pro se.
Before KELLY, MURPHY, and HOLMES, Circuit Judges.


ORDER AND JUDGMENT*

PAUL KELLY, JR., Circuit Judge.
**1 Kenneth Paul Pola, proceeding pro se here as in the district court, appeals the district court’s dismissal of his complaint for failure to state a claim. We have jurisdiction under 28 U.S.C. § 1291 and affirm.
 
Mr. Pola filed a 145–page single-spaced complaint with 151 exhibits attached, which the district court found was “incoherent, rambling, and include[d] everything but the kitchen sink.” R. Vol. 3 at 111. The district court determined that the complaint did not comply with Rules 8 and 12 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. Pursuant to Rule 8, “[a] pleading that states a claim for relief must contain: ... a short and plain statement of the claim showing that the pleader is entitled to relief,” Rule 8(a)(2), and “[e]ach allegation must be simple, concise, and direct,” Rule 8(d)(1). Rule 12(b)(6) permits dismissal of a complaint for “failure to state a claim upon which relief can be granted.”
 
This court’s review of the dismissal order is de novo, “accepting as true all of the well-pled factual allegations and asking whether it is plausible that the plaintiff[ ] *763 [is] entitled to relief.” Coll v. First Am. Title Ins. Co., 642 F.3d 876, 886 (10th Cir.2011) (internal quotation marks omitted). Although pro se filings will be construed liberally, this court “will not supply additional factual allegations to round out a plaintiff’s complaint or construct a legal theory on a plaintiff’s behalf.” Smith v. United States, 561 F.3d 1090, 1096 (10th Cir.2009) (internal quotation marks omitted). “[T]his court has repeatedly insisted that pro se parties follow the same rules of procedure that govern other litigants.” Hall v. Witteman, 584 F.3d 859, 864 (10th Cir.2009) (internal quotation marks omitted).
 
[1] Having reviewed Mr. Pola’s complaint, we agree with the district court that it fails to comply with Rules 8 and 12. Moreover, his appellate brief consists of rambling conclusory allegations of wrongs committed by various defendants. His brief is “wholly inadequate to preserve issues for review” and “do[es] not come close to complying with Federal Rule of Appellate Procedure 28.” Garrett v. Selby Connor Maddux & Janer, 425 F.3d 836, 840 (10th Cir.2005). Therefore, we are unable to determine the issues he is attempting to appeal and will not grant him relief.
 
[2] In addition, Mr. Pola’s attacks on the district judge disentitle him to review. See id. at 841. In his appellate brief, Mr. Pola has made numerous allegations (without basis) along the following lines: “The Federal court who has a history of fraudulent decisions, such as this, to support racketeering, slavery, and human trafficking/ kidnaping of children and their parents, ... where they use technicalities, violations of their own rules, treason, falsifying the rules on the Utah .gov website, establishment of a national religion, establishment of a state religion, encouragement of ‘get rid of’ witnesses, evidence, recordings and support for criminal actions by the LDS church/ State of Utah et, al.” [sic, generally], Aplt. Br. at 2, and “The judges [sic] statement was treasonous, criminal, and promoted murder, police brutality, and ignorance for the law.” Id. at 23.
 
**2 [3] This court has the inherent power “to impose order, respect, decorum, silence, and compliance with lawful mandates.” Garrett, 425 F.3d at 841 (internal quotation marks omitted). Exercising that inherent power, we strike Mr. Pola’s abusive and offensive language. See Fed.R.Civ.P. 12(f) (authorizing the court to strike any impertinent or scandalous matter). Notwithstanding the leniency we ordinarily afford pro se litigants, we “will not allow liberal pleading rules and pro se practice to be a vehicle for abusive documents.” Garrett, 425 F.3d at 841 (internal quotation marks omitted).
 
[4] Mr. Pola has filed several motions seeking injunctive relief from this court. He has not followed the mandated procedures or made any of the required showings to obtain a stay from this court. See Fed. R.App. P. 8(a); 10th Cir. R. 8.1, 8.2. Therefore, his motions are denied.
 
The judgment of the district court is AFFIRMED. All pending motions are DENIED.
 
All Citations
458 Fed.Appx. 760, 2012 WL 292272
Footnotes

*

After examining the briefs and appellate record, this panel has determined unanimously that oral argument would not materially assist the determination of this appeal. See Fed. R.App. P. 34(a)(2); 10th Cir. R. 34.1(G). The case is therefore ordered submitted without oral argument. This order and judgment is not binding precedent, except under the doctrines of law of the case, res judicata, and collateral estoppel. It may be cited, however, for its persuasive value consistent with Fed. R.App. P. 32.1 and 10th Cir. R. 32.1.


End of Document

© 2017 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.


